FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20110506170644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The purpose of this filing is to report (i) that we have amended, and our shareholders have approved, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Covered Employee Incentive Plan, (ii) that we have amended and restated our Certificate of Incorporation and our By-laws, and (iii) the voting results from our Annual Meeting of Shareholders held on May 3, 2011.
 
On May 3, 2011 our shareholders voted to approve The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Covered Employee Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Incentive Plan"), which provides for performance-based awards to members of senior management whose compensation may be subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Currently, the Incentive Plan is used to set the maximum cash incentive amount and the maximum performance-based restricted stock unit award payable to a participant in any fiscal year for purposes of 162(m).
The Incentive Plan is included in this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On May 3, 2011 our shareholders approved amendments to our Certificate of Incorporation to reduce the supermajority voting requirements to a simple majority vote and to reorganize the Board of Directors into one class with each director subject to election each year, beginning in 2012. On that same date, our Board approved conforming amendments to our By-laws.
The Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Fourth Amended and Restated By-Laws are included in this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Our Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on May 3, 2011. At such meeting, 44,144,158 shares of our common stock were represented in person or by proxy, which was equal to 89.03% of the issued and outstanding shares entitled to vote at the meeting.
The matters voted upon and the results of the vote were as follows:
The two directors listed below were elected to one-year terms, which will expire at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. See also Proposal No. 7 below relating to the declassification of our Board of Directors.
 
There were 2,910,071 Broker Non-Votes on Proposal No. 1 relating to each director.
 
The selection of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm was ratified as follows: 43,762,281 voted in favor; 306,569 voted against; and 75,308 abstained.
There were no Broker Non-Votes on Proposal No. 2.
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Covered Employee Incentive Plan, as amended, which provides for performance-based awards to members of senior management whose compensation may be subject to Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, was approved as follows: 36,396,889 voted in favor; 4,679,252 voted against; and 157,946 abstained.
There were 2,910,071 Broker Non-Votes on Proposal No. 3.
The advisory vote on executive compensation as disclosed in the proxy materials for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders was approved as follows: 35,781,179 voted in favor; 5,247,180 voted against; and 205,728 abstained.
There were 2,910,071 Broker Non-Votes on Proposal No. 4.
For the advisory vote on how frequently the Company should hold an advisory vote on executive compensation (Say on Pay), shareholders could elect to have Say on Pay voting from one of four choices: annually, every two years, every three years, or shareholders could also have elected to abstain from voting. The voting was as follows:
 
There were no Broker Non-Votes on Proposal No. 5.
 
The proposal to approve amendments to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation to reduce the supermajority voting requirements to a simple majority vote was approved as follows: 43,746,149 voted in favor; 225,342 voted against; and 172,667 abstained.
There were no Broker Non-Votes on Proposal No. 6.
The proposal to approve amendments to our Restated Certificate of Incorporation to declassify our Board of Directors was approved, as a result of which (i) the Class II directors, whose terms expired at the Annual Meeting in 2011 (Naomi O. Seligman and Michael J. Winkler), were elected for a one-year term expiring at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, and (ii) our classified board structure will be fully eliminated as of the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, at which time, and for each annual election thereafter, all directors will stand for election for a one-year term. The voting was as follows: 43,640,039 voted in favor; 249,416 voted against; and 254,703 abstained.
There were no Broker Non-Votes on Proposal No. 7.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: May 6, 2011
 

Exhibit 3.1
The name of the corporation is The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, and the original Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 25, 2000 under the name of The New D&B Corporation. The Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation as heretofore restated and amended is hereby further amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
FIRST: The name of the corporation is The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.
SECOND: The registered office of the corporation in the State of Delaware is located at No. 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle; and the name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
THIRD: The purposes of the corporation are to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
FOURTH: (1) The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the corporation shall have authority to issue is 220,000,000, consisting of (1) 10,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Preferred Stock"), (2) 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), and (3) 10,000,000 shares of Series Common Stock, par value $.01 per share ("Series Common Stock"). The number of authorized shares of any of the Preferred Stock, the Common Stock or the Series Common Stock may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock of the corporation entitled to vote thereon irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (or any successor provision thereto), and no vote of the holders of any of the Preferred Stock, the Common Stock or the Series Common Stock voting separately as a class shall be required therefor.
(2) The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized, by resolution or resolutions, to provide, out of the unissued shares of Preferred Stock, for series of Preferred Stock and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series. The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each series of Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding. Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors created a series of 500,000 shares of Preferred Stock designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock") by filing a Certificate of Designation of Series A Preferred Stock of the corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on September 8, 2000, and created a series of 1,400,000 shares of Preferred Stock designated as Series B Preferred Stock (the "Series B Preferred Stock") by filing a Certificate of Designation of Series B Preferred Stock of the corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on February 24, 2009, and the
designations, voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock are set forth in Appendix A and Appendix B hereto, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
(3) The Board of Directors is hereby expressly authorized, by resolution or resolutions, to provide, out of the unissued shares of Series Common Stock, for series of Series Common Stock and, with respect to each such series, to fix the number of shares constituting such series and the designation of such series, the voting powers (if any) of the shares of such series, and the preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, if any, and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series. The powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of each series of Series Common Stock, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, if any, may differ from those of any and all other series at any time outstanding.
(4) (a) Each holder of Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to one vote for each share of Common Stock held of record by such holder on all matters on which stockholders generally are entitled to vote; provided, however, that, except as otherwise required by law, holders of Common Stock, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock) that relates solely to the terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other such series, to vote thereon pursuant to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock) or pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(b) Except as otherwise required by law, holders of a series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled only to such voting rights, if any, as shall expressly be granted thereto by this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to such series).
(c) Subject to applicable law and the rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over or the right to participate with the Common Stock with respect to the payment of dividends, dividends may be declared and paid on the Common Stock at such times and in such amounts as the Board of Directors in its discretion shall determine.
(d) Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the corporation, subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any outstanding series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock or any class or series of stock having a preference over or the right to participate with the Common Stock with respect to the distribution of assets of the corporation upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the corporation, the holders of the Common Stock, as such, shall be entitled to receive the assets of the corporation available for distribution to its stockholders ratably in proportion to the number of shares held by them.
FIFTH: The Board of Directors shall be authorized to make, amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the By-Laws of the corporation in any manner not inconsistent with the laws of the State of Delaware, subject to the power of the stockholders to amend, alter, change, add to or repeal the By-Laws made by the Board of Directors. Notwithstanding anything contained in this
 
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shares of the corporation present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to alter, amend or repeal any provision of the By-laws which is to the same effect as Article Fifth, Article Seventh, and Article Eighth of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith.
SIXTH: (1) To the fullest extent permitted by the laws of the State of Delaware:
(a) The corporation shall indemnify any person (and such person's heirs, executors or administrators) who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (brought in the right of the corporation or otherwise), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, and whether formal or informal, including appeals, by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the corporation or, if a director or officer of the corporation, by reason of the fact that such person is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, trust or other enterprise, for and against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person or such heirs, executors or administrators in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, including appeals. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the corporation shall be required to indemnify a person described in such sentence in connection with any action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) commenced by such person only if the commencement of such action, suit or proceeding (or part thereof) by such person was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation. The corporation may indemnify any person (and such person's heirs, executors or administrators) who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (brought in the right of the corporation or otherwise), whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, and whether formal or informal, including appeals, by reason of the fact that such person is or was an employee or agent of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, partner, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation, for and against all expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person or such heirs, executors or administrators in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, including appeals.
(b) The corporation shall promptly pay expenses incurred by (i) any person whom the corporation is obligated to indemnify pursuant to the first sentence of subsection (a) of this Article Sixth, Section (1) or (ii) any person whom the corporation has determined to indemnify pursuant to the third sentence of subsection (a) of this Article Sixth, Section (1), in defending any action, suit or proceeding in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding, including appeals, upon presentation of appropriate documentation.
(c) The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person described in subsection (a) of this Article Sixth, Section (1) against any liability asserted against such person, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article Sixth, Section (1) or otherwise.
(d) The provisions of this Article Sixth, Section (1) shall be applicable to all actions, claims, suits or proceedings made or commenced after the adoption hereof, whether arising from acts or omissions to act occurring before or after its adoption. The provisions of this Article Sixth,
 
Section (1) shall be deemed to be a contract between the corporation and each director or officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this Article Sixth, Section (1) and the relevant provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware and other applicable law, if any, are in effect, and any repeal or modification hereof shall not affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts or any action, suit or proceeding then or theretofore existing, or any action, suit or proceeding thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part on any such state of facts. If any provision of this Article Sixth, Section (1) shall be found to be invalid or limited in application by reason of any law or regulation, it shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions hereof. The rights of indemnification provided in this Article Sixth, Section (1) shall neither be exclusive of, nor be deemed in limitation of, any rights to which an officer, director, employee or agent may otherwise be entitled or permitted by contract, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, vote of stockholders or directors or otherwise, or as a matter of law, both as to actions in such person's official capacity and actions in any other capacity while holding such office, it being the policy of the corporation that indemnification of any person whom the corporation is obligated to indemnify pursuant to the first sentence of subsection (a) of this Article Sixth, Section (1) shall be made to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(e) For purposes of this Article Sixth, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants, or beneficiaries.
(2) A director of the corporation shall not be liable to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except to the extent such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended. Any amendment, modification or repeal of the foregoing sentence shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the corporation hereunder in respect of any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such amendment, modification or repeal.
SEVENTH: (1) The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of a Board of Directors consisting of not less than three directors, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors. Directors elected at the corporation's 2011 annual meeting of stockholders shall be elected for a term expiring at the corporation's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. From and after the corporation's 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors shall not be classified, and all directors shall be elected at each annual meeting of stockholders for a term expiring at the succeeding annual meeting of stockholders. A director shall hold office until his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Any newly created directorship on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. If any applicable provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware expressly confers power on stockholders to fill such a directorship at a special meeting of stockholders, such a directorship may be filled at such meeting only by the affirmative vote of
 
the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shares of the corporation present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor. Directors may be removed only by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shares of the corporation present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class.
(2) Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock issued by the corporation shall have the right, voting separately as a series or separately as a class with one or more such other series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, removal, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations relating to any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock) applicable thereto, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to this Article Seventh unless expressly provided by such terms.
EIGHTH: Any action required or permitted to be taken by the holders of the Common Stock of the corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of such holders and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such holders. Except as otherwise required by law and subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock, special meetings of stockholders of the corporation may be called only by the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution approved by the Board of Directors.
NINTH: Notwithstanding anything contained in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shares of the corporation present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class, shall be required to alter, amend or repeal Article Fifth, Article Seventh, Article Eighth or this Article Ninth or to adopt any provision inconsistent therewith.
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation does hereby further certify that this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was duly adopted by the stockholders in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation has caused its corporate seal to be hereunto affixed and this certificate to be signed by Jeffrey S. Hurwitz, its Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, this 6th day of May, 2011.
 
 
Appendix A
 
 
 
The New D&B Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Company"), hereby certifies that the following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware on August 15, 2000.
RESOLVED, that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation as approved on the date hereof by the Board of Directors, and subject to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation becoming effective in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Board of Directors does hereby create, authorize and provide for the issuance of a series of preferred stock to be designated as the "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock," having the designation, number of shares, voting powers, preferences and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions that are set forth in the Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Certificate of Designation"), a copy of which has been presented to the Board of Directors;
and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the relative rights, powers and preferences of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows:
Section 1. . The shares of such series shall be designated as "Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock") and the number of shares constituting the Series A Preferred Stock shall be 500,000. Such number of shares may be increased or decreased by resolution of the Board of Directors; , that no decrease shall reduce the number of shares of Series A Preferred Stock to a number less than the number of shares then outstanding plus the number of shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding options, rights or warrants or upon the conversion of any outstanding securities issued by the Company convertible into Series A Preferred Stock.
Designation and Amount
provided
 
Section 2. .
Dividends and Distributions
(A) Subject to the rights of the holders of any shares of any series of Preferred Stock of the Company (the "Preferred Stock") (or any similar stock) ranking prior and superior to the Series A Preferred Stock with respect to dividends, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock, in preference to the holders of Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock") and of any other stock of the Company ranking junior to the Series A Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available for the purpose, quarterly dividends payable in cash on the last day of January, April, July, and October in each year (each such date being referred to herein as a "Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock (the "Issue Date"), in an amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (a) $10 or (b) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 1000 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 1000 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in kind) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock, declared on the Common Stock since the immediately preceding Dividend Payment Date or, with respect to the first Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock. In the event the Company shall at any time after the Issue Date declare and pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(B) The Company shall declare a dividend or distribution on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in paragraph (A) of this Section immediately after it declares a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock (other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock); provided that, in the event no dividend or distribution shall have been declared on the Common Stock during the period between any Dividend Payment Date and the next subsequent Dividend Payment Date, a dividend of $10 per share on the Series A Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be payable, when, as and if declared, on such subsequent Dividend Payment Date.
(C) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative, whether or not earned or declared, on outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive a quarterly dividend and before such Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such
 
Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. The Board of Directors may fix a record date for the determination of holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock entitled to receive payment of a dividend or distribution declared thereon, which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to the date fixed for the payment thereof.
Section 3. . The holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights;
Voting Rights
(A) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth and except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or required by law, each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder thereof to 1000 votes on all matters upon which the holders of the Common Stock of the Company are entitled to vote. In the event the Company shall at any time after the Issue Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted by multiplying such number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(B) Except as otherwise provided herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation or in any other Certificate of Designations creating a series of Preferred Stock or any similar stock, and except as otherwise required by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of shares of Common Stock and any other capital stock of the Company having general voting rights shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Company.
(C) Except as set forth herein, or as otherwise provided by law, holders of Series A Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required (except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as set forth herein) for taking any corporate action.
(D) If, at the time of any annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, the equivalent of six quarterly dividends (whether or not consecutive) payable on any share or shares of Series A Preferred Stock are in default, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Company shall be increased by two. In addition to voting together with the holders of Common Stock for the election of other directors of the Company, the holders of record of the Series A Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, shall be entitled at said meeting of stockholders (and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders), unless all
 
dividends in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock have been paid or declared and set apart for payment prior thereto, to vote for the election of two directors of the Company, the holders of any Series A Preferred Stock being entitled to cast a number of votes per share of Series A Preferred Stock as is specified in paragraph (A) of this Section 3. Each such additional director shall not be a member of Class I, Class II or Class III of the Board of Directors of the Company, but shall serve until the next annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, or until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, or until his right to hold such office terminates pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3(D). Until the default in payments of all dividends which permitted the election of said directors shall cease to exist, any director who shall have been so elected pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3(D) may be removed at any time, without cause, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock at the time entitled to cast a majority of the votes entitled to be cast for the election of any such director at a special meeting of such holders called for that purpose, and any vacancy thereby created may be filled by the vote of such holders. If and when such default shall cease to exist, the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be divested of the foregoing special voting rights, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent like default in payments of dividends. Upon the termination of the foregoing special voting rights, the terms of office of all persons who may have been elected directors pursuant to said special voting rights shall forthwith terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be reduced by two. The voting rights granted by this Section 3(D) shall be in addition to any other voting rights granted to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock in this Section 3.
Section 4. .
Certain Restrictions
(A) Whenever quarterly dividends or other dividends or distributions payable on the Series A Preferred Stock as provided in Section 2 are in arrears, thereafter and until all accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions, whether or not earned or declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall have been paid in full, the Company shall not:
(i) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;
(ii) declare or pay dividends, or make any other distributions, on any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except dividends paid ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are then entitled;
(iii) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of any stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock, provided that the Company may at
 
any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire shares of any such junior stock in exchange for shares of any stock of the Company ranking junior (as to dividends and upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock or rights, warrants or options to acquire such junior stock;
(iv) redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, except in accordance with a purchase offer made in writing or by publication (as determined by the Board of Directors) to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable treatment among the respective series or classes.
(B) The Company shall not permit any subsidiary of the Company to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of stock of the Company unless the Company could, under paragraph (A) of this Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such manner.
Section 5. . Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their retirement become authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors, subject to any conditions and restrictions on issuance set forth herein.
Reacquired Shares
Section 6. . Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, no distribution shall be made (A) to the holders of the Common Stock or of shares of any other stock of the Company ranking junior, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, to the Series A Preferred Stock unless, prior thereto, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have received $100 per share, plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not earned or declared, to the date of such payment, provided that the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive an aggregate amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of shares of Common Stock, or (B) to the holders of shares of stock ranking on a parity upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up with the Series A Preferred Stock, except distributions made ratably on the Series A Preferred Stock and all such parity stock in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of all such shares are entitled upon such liquidation, dissolution or winding up. In the event, however, that there are not sufficient assets available to permit payment in full of the Series A liquidation preference and the liquidation preferences of all other classes and series of stock of the Company, if any, that rank on a parity with the Series A Preferred Stock in respect thereof, then the assets available for such distribution shall be distributed ratably to the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and the holders of such parity shares in the proportion to their respective liquidation preferences. In the event the Company
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
 
shall at any time after the Issue Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the aggregate amount to which holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock were entitled immediately prior to such event under the proviso in clause (A) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Neither the merger or consolidation of the Company into or with another entity nor the merger or consolidation of any other entity into or with the Company (nor the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company) shall be deemed to be a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company within the meaning of this Section 6.
Section 7. . In case the Company shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are converted into, exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be similarly converted into, exchanged for or changed into an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 1000 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is converted, exchanged or converted. In the event the Company shall at any time after the Issue Date declare or pay any dividend on the Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or combination or consolidation of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise than by payment of a dividend in shares of Common Stock) into a greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the conversion, exchange or change of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc
Section 8. . The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable from any holder.
No Redemption
Section 9. . The Series A Preferred Stock shall rank, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, junior to all other series of Preferred Stock and senior to the Common Stock.
Rank
Section 10. . If any proposed amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation (including this Certificate of Designations) would alter, change or repeal any of the preferences, powers or special rights given to the Series A Preferred Stock so as to affect the Series A Preferred Stock adversely, then the holders of the Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote separately as a class upon such amendment, and the affirmative vote of two-thirds
Amendment
 
of the outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class, shall be necessary for the adoption thereof, in addition to such other vote as may be required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
Section 11. . Series A Preferred Stock may be issued in fractions of a share that shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Preferred Stock.
Fractional Shares
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Company by its V.P. & Treasurer and attested by its Secretary this 5th day of September, 2000.
 
 
 
Appendix B
 
 
The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), does hereby certify that, pursuant to Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company (the ""):
Company
Board of Directors
RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, in connection with an intercompany transaction with a wholly-owned subsidiary in exchange for outstanding intercompany debt, the Board of Directors does hereby create and designate a series of preferred stock of the Company, par value $.01 per share, and the Board of Directors does hereby fix the relative rights and preferences of the shares of such series as follows:
1. . The shares of such series of preferred stock shall be designated as the "Series B Preferred Stock" (the "") and the number of shares constituting the Series B Preferred Stock shall be 1,400,000.
Designation and Amount
Series B Preferred Stock
2. . (a) . The holders of shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, out of funds legally available for payment of dividends under the Delaware General Corporation Law, dividends at the annual rate of 4.0% applied to the Liquidation Preference (as defined below) per share of the Series B Preferred Stock. Such dividends shall accrue and be cumulative, whether or not declared, from the date of issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock. The first dividend shall be payable, but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, on March 3, 2010 (the ""), for the period from the date of issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock through March 3, 2010 (the ""). After the Initial Dividend Period, dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears, but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, on each of March 3, June 3, September 3 and
Dividends
Rate and Payment
Initial Dividend Payment Date
Initial Dividend Period
 
December 3 of each year (each, a ""), commencing on June 3, 2010; provided that if any such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series B Preferred Stock on such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the original Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, and no additional dividends, interest or other amounts shall accrue on the amount so payable from such date to such next succeeding Business Day. A Business Day is a day other than (i) a Saturday or Sunday; (ii) a day on which banks in New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to remain closed; or (iii) a day on which the Company's principal executive office is closed for business. The period from and including any Quarterly Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Quarterly Dividend Payment Date is a "." Dividends may be paid in cash, additional shares of Series B Preferred Stock, or any combination thereof, at the Company's discretion. If the Company elects to make any dividend payment, or any portion thereof, in shares of Series B Preferred Stock, such shares shall be valued for such purpose at $1,000 per share. Dividends will cease to become payable by the Company on the Series B Preferred Stock on the Mandatory Redemption Date (as defined below). If at any time the Company pays less than the total amount of dividends then accrued with respect to the Series B Preferred Stock, such payment shall be distributed pro rata among the holders thereof based on the aggregate accrued but unpaid dividends on the shares of Series B Preferred Stock held by each such holder. If the Company fails to pay a dividend on the Series B Preferred Stock, dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock shall continue to accrue and cumulate at an annual rate of 4.0% applied to the Liquidation Preference.
Quarterly Dividend Payment Date
Dividend Period
(b).So long as any share of the Series B Preferred Stock remains outstanding, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock have been paid on the Initial Dividend Payment Date or the applicable Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, whether in cash or in kind, the Company shall not, and shall cause its subsidiaries not to, pay any dividend on, make any distributions relating to, or redeem, purchase, acquire (either directly or through any subsidiary) or make a liquidation payment relating to, any Common Stock, or make any guarantee payment with respect thereto, other than:
Priority of Dividends
(i) purchases, redemptions or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock in connection with any employment contract, benefit plan or other similar arrangement with or for the benefit of employees, officers, directors or consultants;
(ii) purchases of shares of Common Stock pursuant to a contractually binding requirement to buy stock existing prior to the commencement of the then-current dividend period, including under a contractually binding stock repurchase plan;
(iii) as a result of an exchange or conversion of any class or series of Common Stock, or the securities of another company, for any other class or series of Common Stock;
(iv) the purchase of fractional interests in shares of Common Stock pursuant to the conversion or exchange provisions of such Common Stock or the security being converted or exchanged; or
 
(v) the payment of any dividends in respect of Common Stock where the dividend is in the form of the same stock as that on which the dividend is being paid.
Subject to the foregoing, such dividends payable in cash, stock or otherwise, as may be determined by the Board of Directors, or any duly authorized committee thereof, may be declared and paid on any Common Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available for such payment, and holders of the Series B Preferred Stock will not be entitled to participate in those dividends.
3. . (a) . Upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Company (a ""), voluntary or otherwise, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive in preference to the holders of Common Stock an amount equal to $1,000 per share (the "") plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of such payment.
Liquidation Preference
Liquidation
Liquidation
Liquidation Preference
(b) . If upon Liquidation, the assets of the Company are not sufficient to pay in full the Liquidation Preference plus any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to all holders of the Series B Preferred Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series B Preferred Stock shall be distributed pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series B Preferred Stock.
Partial Payment
(c) . After setting apart or paying in full the Liquidation Preference, the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Company (or proceeds thereof).
Residual Distributions
(d) . For purposes of this section, the merger or consolidation of the Company with or into any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series B Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, shall not constitute a Liquidation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
 
4. . On February 24, 2019 (the "Mandatory Redemption Date"), the Company shall be obligated to redeem for cash all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock at a redemption price per share of Series B Preferred Stock equal to the Liquidation Preference plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon.
Mandatory Redemption
5. . No holder of outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to notice of any stockholder's meeting or to vote with respect to any matter presented to the stockholders of the Company for their action or consideration, except as provided below or as provided by law.
Voting Rights
6. . So long as any shares of Series B Preferred Stock are outstanding, this Company shall not, without obtaining the approval (by vote or written consent) of the holders of at least a majority of the then outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock, alter or change the rights, preferences, privileges or restrictions provided for the benefit of the Series B Preferred Stock.
Protective Provisions
7. . Except as expressly prohibited by law, this Certificate of Designation may be amended and any provision herein may be waived with the approval of the holders of a majority of the Series B Preferred Stock and the Board of Directors. Any amendment or waiver so effected shall be binding upon each holder of Series B Preferred Stock.
Amendment; Waiver
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designation has been executed on behalf of the Company as of the 23rd day of February, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
Section 1. . The annual meeting of the stockholders of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation (the "Corporation") for the purpose of electing directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting shall be held on such date, and at such time and place within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
Section 2. . Special meetings of the stockholders may be called at any time, for any purpose or purposes, unless otherwise prescribed by statute or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, by the Secretary or any other officer, whenever directed by the Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer. The purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting shall be included in the notice setting forth such call.
Special Meeting
Section 3. . Except as otherwise provided by law, written notice of the date, time, place and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes of the meeting of stockholders, shall be delivered personally, mailed or otherwise given by any other lawful means not earlier than sixty (60), nor less than ten (10), days previous thereto, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting at such address as appears on the records of the Corporation.
Notice of Meeting
Section 4. . The holders of a majority in voting power of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business, except as otherwise provided by statute or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation; but if at any regularly called meeting of stockholders there be less than a quorum present, the stockholders present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law at the meeting until a quorum shall be present or represented. At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if, after the adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Quorum
Section 5. . The Chairman of the Board, or in the Chairman's absence or at the Chairman's direction, the Chief Executive Officer, or in the Chief Executive Officer's absence or at the Chief Executive Officer's direction, any officer of the Corporation shall call all meetings of the stockholders to order and shall act as Chairman of such meeting. The Secretary of the Corporation or, in such officer's absence, an Assistant Secretary shall act as secretary of the meeting. If neither the Secretary nor an Assistant Secretary
Organization and Conduct of Business
is present, the Chairman of the meeting shall appoint a secretary of the meeting. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors prior to the meeting, the Chairman of the meeting shall determine the order of business and shall have the authority in his or her discretion to regulate the conduct of any such meeting, including, without limitation, by imposing restrictions on the persons (other than stockholders of the Corporation or their duly appointed proxies) who may attend any such meeting, whether any stockholder or stockholders' proxy may be excluded from any meeting of stockholders based upon any determination by the Chairman, in his or her sole discretion, that any such person has unduly disrupted or is likely to disrupt the proceedings thereat, and the circumstances in which any person may make a statement or ask questions at any meeting of stockholders. The Chairman of the meeting shall have authority to adjourn any meeting of stockholders.
Section 6. . At all meetings of stockholders, any stockholder entitled to vote thereat shall be entitled to vote in person or by proxy, but no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date, unless such proxy provides for a longer period. Without limiting the manner in which a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the following shall constitute a valid means by which a stockholder may grant such authority: (1) a stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy, and execution of the writing may be accomplished by the stockholder or the stockholder's authorized officer, director, employee or agent signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature; or (2) a stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission, provided that any such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder. If it is determined that such telegrams, cablegrams or other electronic transmissions are valid, the inspector or inspectors of stockholder votes or, if there are no such inspectors, such other persons making that determination shall specify the information upon which they relied. Subject to the limitation set forth in the last clause of the first sentence of this Section 6, a duly executed proxy that does not state that it is irrevocable shall continue in full force and effect unless (i) revoked by the person executing it, before the vote pursuant to that proxy, by a writing delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation stating that the proxy is revoked or by a subsequent proxy executed by, or attendance at the meeting and voting in person by, the person executing the proxy, or (ii) written notice of the death or incapacity of the maker of that proxy is received by the Secretary of the Corporation before the vote pursuant to that proxy is counted. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. The revocability of a proxy that states on its face that it is irrevocable shall be governed by the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
Proxies
Any copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reliable reproduction of a writing or transmission created pursuant to the preceding paragraph of this Section 6 may be substituted or used in lieu of the original writing or transmission for any and all purposes for which the original
 
writing or transmission could be used, provided that such copy, facsimile telecommunication or other reproduction shall be a complete reproduction of the entire original writing or transmission.
Proxies shall be filed with or otherwise delivered to the Secretary of the meeting prior to or at the commencement of the meeting to which they relate.
Section 7. . When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority in voting power of the stock present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the matter shall decide any question brought before such meeting, unless the question is one upon which by express provision of statute or applicable stock exchange or other rules or regulations or of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of such question.
Voting Rights
Section 8. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders (a) entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or (b) entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date (i) in the case of clause (a) above, shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting, and (ii) in the case of clause (b) above, shall not be more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If for any reason the Board of Directors shall not have fixed a record date for any such purpose, the record date for such purpose shall be determined as provided by law. Only those stockholders of record on the date so fixed or determined shall be entitled to any of the foregoing rights, notwithstanding the transfer of any such stock on the books of the Corporation after any such record date so fixed or determined.
Record Date for Stockholder Notice, Voting and Payment
Section 9. . The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make at least ten (10) days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting, as required by applicable law. During such period, the list shall be kept, at the Corporation's election, either (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours at the principal place of business of the Corporation. If the Corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the Corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the Corporation.
List of Stockholders
Section 10. . The Board of Directors, in advance of all meetings of the stockholders, shall appoint one or more inspectors of stockholder votes, who may be stockholders or their proxies, but not directors of the Corporation or candidates for office. In the event that the Board of Directors fails to so appoint inspectors of stockholder votes or, in the event that one or more inspectors of stockholder votes previously designated by the Board of Directors fails to appear or act at the meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the meeting may appoint one or more inspectors of stockholder votes to fill such vacancy or
Inspection of Elections
 
vacancies. Inspectors of stockholder votes appointed to act at any meeting of the stockholders, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be sworn faithfully to execute the duties of inspector of stockholder votes with strict impartiality and according to the best of their ability and the oath so taken shall be subscribed by them. Inspectors of stockholder votes shall, subject to the power of the Chairman of the meeting to open and close the polls, take charge of the polls, and, after the voting, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken.
Section 11. (A) . (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at a meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Article I, Section 3 of these By-Laws, (b) by or at the direction of the Chairman of the Board or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11 and who was a stockholder of record (and, with respect to any beneficial owner, if different, on whose behalf such business is proposed, only if such beneficial owner was the beneficial owner of the shares of the Corporation) both at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation and at the time of the meeting; provided, however, that only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting pursuant to Article I, Section 2 of these By-Laws. Notwithstanding anything in these By-Laws to the contrary, clause (c) of the immediately preceding sentence shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to submit nominations or other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 under the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before a meeting of stockholders.
Business of Meetings of Stockholders
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before a meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this By-Law, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation and must provide any updates or supplements of such notice at the time and in the forms required by this Section 11, and in the case of business other than nominations, such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice of a proposal to be presented at an annual meeting shall be delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty days (120) prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is advanced by more than twenty (20) days, or delayed by more than seventy (70) days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the one hundred twentieth (120
th
) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90
th
) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. Any stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected, (ii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith,
 
on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Rule 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and any beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made, if any, or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such rule and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant and (iii) the completed and signed representation and agreement described in paragraph (C)(5) of this Section 11; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, (ii) the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), (iii) the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and (iv) a description of any material interest of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, in such proposal or business, as applicable, including a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder, and a description of any material benefit that such stockholder or such beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made, reasonably would expect to derive from such business or action, as applicable; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class, series and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder will notify the Corporation in writing of the class and number of such shares owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the latter of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed, (iv) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, (v) a representation whether such stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (1) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (2) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination, (vi) a copy of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the proposal of business or action or nomination between or among such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing and a representation that the stockholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such agreements, arrangements or understandings in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed; (vii) a copy of any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder or beneficial owner has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Corporation, (viii) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, derivative, swap, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value or volatility of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall convey any voting rights in such shares or shall be subject to settlement in the
 
underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder or beneficial owner or any other direct or indirect opportunity of such stockholder or beneficial owner to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation (each, a "Derivative Instrument") and a representation that such stockholder will notify the Corporation in writing of any such Derivative Instrument in effect as of the record date for the meeting promptly following the later of the record date or the date of notice of the record date is first publicly disclosed, (ix) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder or beneficial owner that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (x) any proportionate interest in shares of capital stock of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by (1) a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder or beneficial owner is a general partner, or directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest, (2) a limited liability company in which such stockholder or beneficial owner is a member, or directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest or (3) any other entity in which such stockholder or beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest and (xi) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder or beneficial owner is entitled to, in whole or in part, based on any increase or decrease in the price or value of shares of any class or series of the Corporation, or any Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), and (xii) any other information that is required to be disclosed pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (or any successor provision of the Exchange Act or the rules or regulations promulgated thereunder) in such stockholder's capacity as a proponent of a stockholder proposal or nomination, as applicable. The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his, her or its intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with Rule 14a-8 (or any successor thereof) promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may be reasonably required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation, including, without limitation, information that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence or lack of independence of such proposed nominee.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this By-Law to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this By-Law shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(B) . Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the
Business of Special Meetings of Stockholders
 
direction of the Board of Directors or (b) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this By-Law and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. Nominations of stockholders of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at such a special meeting of stockholders if the stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the one hundred twentieth (120
th
) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90
th
) day prior to such special meeting, or the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.
(C) . (1) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the Chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine (a) whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made in accordance with the procedures set forth in this By-Law (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (A)(2)(c)(v) of this By-Law) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this By-Law, to declare that such defective nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this paragraph (C)(1), to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
General
(2) For purposes of this By-Law, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) For purposes of this By-Law, no adjournment nor notice of adjournment of any meeting shall be deemed to constitute a new notice of such meeting for purposes of this Section 11, and in order for any notification required to be delivered by a stockholder pursuant to this Section 11 to be timely, such notification must be delivered within the periods set forth above with respect to the originally scheduled meeting.
 
(4) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this By-Law, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this By-Law; provided, however, that any references in these By-Laws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to Sections 11 of this Article I.
(5) To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, at the request of the Secretary of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under this By-law) to the Secretary a written questionnaire with respect to the background, qualification and independence of such person (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (i) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (ii) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, and (iii) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with, applicable law and all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
(6) A stockholder providing notice of business proposed to be brought before a meeting shall further update and supplement such notice, if necessary, so that the information provided or required to be provided in such notice pursuant to this Section 11 shall be true and correct as of the record date for the meeting and as of the date that is ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof, and such update and supplement shall be delivered to, or mailed and received by, the Secretary of the Corporation at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than five (5) business days after the record date for the meeting (in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of the record date), and not later than eight (8) business days prior to the date for the meeting, if practicable (or, if not practicable, on the first practicable date prior to), or any adjournment or postponement thereof (in the case of the update and supplement required to be made as of ten (10) business days prior to the meeting or any adjournment or postponement thereof).
Section 1. . The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consist of such number of directors, not less than three nor more than 15, as shall from time to time be fixed exclusively by resolution of the Board of Directors. The directors shall be elected at such time and for such terms as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of
Number, Election and Tenure
 
Incorporation of the Corporation. Directors shall (except as hereinafter provided for the filling of vacancies and newly created directorships) be elected by the holders of a majority of the voting power present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote for the election of directors at any meeting at which a quorum is present, provided that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the voting power present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the election of directors at any such meeting. For purposes of this Section, a majority of the voting power present means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" that director. If a director is not elected, the director shall offer to tender his or her resignation to the Board. The Board Affairs Committee will make a recommendation to the Board on whether to accept or reject the resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board will act on the Committee's recommendation and publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the Board's decision. Directors shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which their terms expire and until their successors shall be duly elected and qualified, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. A majority of the total number of directors then in office (but not less than one-third of the number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, except as otherwise provided by law or by the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. Directors need not be stockholders.
Section 2. . Newly created directorships in the Board of Directors that result from an increase in the number of directors and any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled only by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; and the directors so chosen shall hold office for a term as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation. If any applicable provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware expressly confers power on stockholders to fill such a directorship at a special meeting of stockholders, such a directorship may be filled at such meeting only by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting as a single class.
Vacancies
Section 3. . Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board or as may be specified in the notice of any meeting. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such times as may from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board and special meetings may be held at any time upon the call of the Chairman of the Board or the President, by oral, or written notice including, telegraph, telex or transmission of a telecopy, e-mail or other means of transmission, duly served on or sent or mailed to each director not less than one day before the meeting. The notice of any meeting need not specify the purposes thereof. A meeting of the Board may be held without notice immediately after the annual meeting of stockholders at the same place at which such meeting is held. Notice need not be given of regular meetings of the Board held at times fixed by resolution of the Board. Notice of any meeting need not be given to any director who shall attend such meeting in person (except when the director attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or
Meetings
 
convened), or who shall waive notice thereof, before or after such meeting, in accordance with applicable law.
Section 4. . Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever the holders of any one or more series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock issued by the Corporation shall have the right, voting separately by series, to elect directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders, the election, term of office, removal, filling of vacancies and other features of such directorships shall be governed by the terms of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation applicable thereto, and such directors so elected shall not be divided into classes pursuant to Article SEVENTH of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation unless expressly provided by such terms. The number of directors that may be elected by the holders of any such series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock shall be in addition to the number fixed by or pursuant to the By-Laws. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the terms of such series, the number of directors that may be so elected by the holders of any such series of stock shall be elected for terms expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and vacancies among directors so elected by the separate vote of the holders of any such series of Preferred Stock or Series Common Stock shall be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors elected by such series, or, if there are no such remaining directors, by the holders of such series in the same manner in which such series initially elected a director.
Elections by Preferred Stockholders or Holders of Series Common Stock
Section 5. . If at any meeting for the election of directors, the Corporation has outstanding more than one class of stock, and one or more such classes or series thereof are entitled to vote separately as a class, and there shall be a quorum of only one such class or series of stock, that class or series of stock shall be entitled to elect its quota of directors notwithstanding absence of a quorum of the other class or series of stock.
Elections Subject to Vote of More than One Class of Stock
Section 6. . The Board of Directors may designate three or more directors to constitute an executive committee, one of whom shall be designated Chairman of such committee. The members of such committee shall hold such office until the next election of the Board of Directors and until their successors are elected and qualify. Any vacancy occurring in the committee shall be filled by the Board of Directors. Regular meetings of the committee shall be held at such times and on such notice and at such places as it may from time to time determine. The committee shall act, advise with and aid the officers of the Corporation in all matters concerning its interest and the management of its business, and shall generally perform such duties and exercise such powers as may from time to time be delegated to it by the Board of Directors, and shall have authority to exercise all the powers of the Board of Directors, so far as may be permitted by law, in the management of the business and the affairs of the Corporation whenever the Board of Directors is not in session or whenever a quorum of the Board of Directors fails to attend any regular or special meeting of such Board. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing grant of authority, the executive committee is expressly authorized to declare dividends, whether regular or special, to authorize the issuance of stock of the Corporation and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 or any successor provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. The committee shall have power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which are required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware to have the seal affixed thereto. The fact that the executive committee has acted shall be conclusive evidence that the
Executive Committee
 
Board of Directors was not in session at such time or that a quorum of the Board had failed to attend the regular or special meeting thereof.
The executive committee shall keep regular minutes of its transactions and shall cause them to be recorded in a book kept in the office of the Corporation designated for that purpose, and shall report the same to the Board of Directors at their regular meeting. The committee shall make and adopt its own rules for the government thereof and shall elect its own officers.
Section 7. . The Board of Directors may from time to time establish such other committees to serve at the pleasure of the Board which shall be comprised of such members of the Board and have such duties as the Board shall from time to time establish. Any director may belong to any number of committees of the Board. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in place of any such absent or disqualified member. The Board may also establish such other committees with such members (whether or not directors) and such duties as the Board may from time to time determine.
Committees
Section 8. . Unless otherwise restricted by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in accordance with applicable law.
Action by Written Consent
Section 9. . The members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such Board or committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this subsection shall constitute presence in person at such a meeting.
Telephonic Meetings
Section 10. . The Board of Directors may establish policies for the compensation of directors and for the reimbursement of the expenses of directors, in each case, in connection with services provided by directors to the Corporation.
Fees and Compensation of Directors
Section 1. . The Board of Directors, as soon as may be after each annual meeting of the stockholders, shall elect officers of the Corporation, including a Chairman of the Board or President and a Secretary. The Board of Directors may also from time to time elect such other officers (including one or more Vice Presidents, a Treasurer, one or more Assistant Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries and one or more Assistant Treasurers) as it may deem proper or may delegate to any elected officer of the Corporation the power to appoint and remove any such other officers and to prescribe their respective terms of office, authorities and duties. Any Vice President may be designated Executive, Senior or Corporate, or may be given such other designation or combination of designations as the Board of Directors may determine. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Election of Officers
 
Section 2. . All officers of the Corporation elected by the Board of Directors shall hold office for such term as may be determined by the Board of Directors or until their respective successors are chosen and qualified. Any officer may be removed from office at any time either with or without cause by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board then in office, or, in the case of appointed officers, by any elected officer upon whom such power of removal shall have been conferred by the Board of Directors.
Tenure
Section 3. . Each of the officers of the Corporation elected by the Board of Directors or appointed by an officer in accordance with these By-laws shall have the powers and duties prescribed by law, by the By-Laws or by the Board of Directors and, in the case of appointed officers, the powers and duties prescribed by the appointing officer, and, unless otherwise prescribed by the By-Laws or by the Board of Directors or such appointing officer, shall have such further powers and duties as ordinarily pertain to that office. The Chairman of the Board or the President, as determined by the Board of Directors, shall be the Chief Executive Officer and shall have the general direction of the affairs of the Corporation.
Powers and Duties
Section 4. . Unless otherwise provided in these By-Laws, in the absence or disability of any officer of the Corporation, the Board of Directors may, during such period, delegate such officer's powers and duties to any other officer or to any director and the person to whom such powers and duties are delegated shall, for the time being, hold such office.
Absence or Disability
Section 1. . The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of the Corporation's stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution by the Board of Directors, every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or the Secretary of the Corporation, or as otherwise permitted by law, representing the number of shares registered in certificate form. Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.
Certificates for Shares
Section 2. . Transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the Corporation by the holder of the shares in person or by such holder's attorney upon surrender and cancellation of certificates for a like number of shares, or as otherwise provided by law with respect to uncertificated shares.
Transfers of Stock
Section 3. . No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, except upon production of such evidence of such loss, theft or destruction and upon delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors in its discretion may require.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
 
The books of the Corporation may be kept outside of the State of Delaware at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
All checks and drafts on the Corporation's bank accounts and all bills of exchange and promissory notes, and all acceptances, obligations and other instruments for the payment of money, shall be signed by such officer or officers or agent or agents as shall be hereunto authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors. Proxies to vote and consents with respect to securities of other corporations owned by or standing in the name of the Corporation may be executed and delivered from time to time on behalf of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or by such officers as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January in each year and shall end on the thirty-first day of December following.
The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation. In lieu of the corporate seal, when so authorized by the Board of Directors or a duly empowered committee thereof, a facsimile thereof may be impressed or affixed or reproduced.
These By-Laws may be amended, added to, rescinded or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting of the stockholders or, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two (2) days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that, notwithstanding any other provisions of these By-Laws or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote of the stockholders, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all shares of the Corporation present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class, shall be required in order for the stockholders to alter, amend or repeal Section 2 and Section 11 of Article I, Sections 1 and 2 of Article II or this proviso to this Article IX of these By-Laws or to adopt any provision inconsistent with any of such Sections or with this proviso.
 

Exhibit 10.1
1. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Company and its stockholders by providing incentives in the form of periodic bonus awards to certain management employees of the Company and its Affiliates, thereby motivating such employees to attain performance goals articulated under the Plan.
2. DEFINITIONS
The following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
(a) Act: The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any successor thereto.
(b) Affiliate: With respect to the Company, any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the Company or any other entity designated by the Board in which the Company or an Affiliate has an interest.
(c) Award: A periodic bonus award granted pursuant to the Plan, which may be satisfied in cash or equity as determined at the time of the Award. If the Award is satisfied in equity, such Award will be subject to the terms and conditions of The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation 2009 Stock Incentive Plan or successor plan (the "SIP"), including the maximum number of Shares of the Company's Common Stock that may be issued under the SIP.
(d) Beneficial Owner: As such term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Act (or any successor rule thereto).
(e) Board: The Board of Directors of the Company.
(f) Change in Control: The occurrence of any of the following events:
 
 
 
 
 
(g) Code: The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor thereto.
(h) Committee: The Compensation and Benefits Committee of the Board, or any successor thereto or any other committee designated by the Board to assume the obligations of the Committee hereunder.
(i) Common Stock: The common stock of the Company, par value $0.01 per share, or another class of share or other securities that may be applicable in accordance with Section 13 of the SIP.
(j) Company: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation.
(k) Covered Employee: An employee who is, or who is anticipated to become, a covered employee, as such term is defined in Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor section thereto).
(l) Effective Date: The date on which the Plan takes effect, as defined pursuant to Section 13 of the Plan.
(m) Participant: A Covered Employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates who is selected by the Committee to participate in the Plan pursuant to Section 4 of the Plan.
(n) Performance Period: The calendar year or any other period that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine.
(o) Person: As such term is used for purposes of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Act or any successor sections thereto.
(p) Plan: The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation Covered Employee Incentive Plan.
(q) Shares: Shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per Share, or as may be adjusted pursuant to Section 13(b) of the SIP.
(r) Subsidiary: A subsidiary corporation, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code (or any successor section thereto).
3. ADMINISTRATION
The Plan shall be administered by the Committee or such other persons designated by the Board. The Committee may delegate its duties and powers in whole or in part to any subcommittee thereof consisting solely of at least two individuals who are each "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Act (or any successor rule thereto) and "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor section thereto). The Committee shall have the authority to select the Covered Employees to be granted Awards under the Plan, to determine the size and terms of an Award (subject to the limitations imposed on Awards in Section 5 below), to modify the terms of any Award that has been granted (except for any modification that would increase the amount of the Award), to determine the time when Awards will be made and the Performance Period to which they relate, to establish performance objectives in respect of such Performance Periods and to certify that such performance objectives were attained; provided, however, that any such action shall be consistent with the applicable provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code. The Committee is authorized to interpret the Plan, to establish, amend and rescind any rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to make any other determinations that it deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan; provided, however, that any action permitted to be taken by the Committee may be taken by the Board, in its discretion. The Committee may correct any defect or omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan in the
 
manner and to the extent the Committee deems necessary or desirable. Any decision of the Committee in the interpretation and administration of the Plan, as described herein, shall lie within its sole and absolute discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties concerned. Determinations made by the Committee under the Plan need not be uniform and may be made selectively among Participants, whether or not such Participants are similarly situated. The Committee shall have the right to deduct from any payment made under the Plan any federal, state, local or foreign income or other taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment. To the extent consistent with the applicable provisions of Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may delegate to one or more employees of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries the authority to take actions on its behalf pursuant to the Plan.
4. ELIGIBILITY AND PARTICIPATION
The Committee shall designate those persons who shall be Participants for each Performance Period. Participants shall be selected from among the Covered Employees of the Company and any of its Subsidiaries who are in a position to have a material impact on the results of the operations of the Company or of one or more of its Subsidiaries.
5. AWARDS
(a) Performance Goals. Each of a Participant's Awards shall be conditioned on the attainment of performance goals that are approved by the Committee for a Performance Period and established in writing by the Committee (i) while the outcome for the Performance Period is substantially uncertain and (ii) no more than 90 days after the commencement of the Performance Period to which the performance goal relates or, if less than 90 days, the number of days which is equal to 25 percent of the relevant Performance Period. The Committee shall adopt or confirm a written definition of each performance goal used in an Award at the time the Committee establishes such performance goal. If more than one performance goal is specified by the Committee for an Award, the Committee shall also specify in writing whether one, all or some other number of such goals must be attained in order for payment to be made to the Participant with respect to the Award. The performance goals, which must be objective, shall be based upon one or more or the following criteria: (i) earnings before or after taxes (including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); (ii) net income; (iii) operating income; (iv) earnings per Share; (v) book value per Share; (vi) return on stockholders' equity; (vii) expense management; (viii) return on investment before or after the cost of capital; (ix) improvements in capital structure, debt to capital ratio or capital expenditures; (x) profitability of an identifiable business unit or product; (xi) maintenance or improvement of profit margins; (xi) operating profit; (xiii) stock price; (xiv) market share; (xv) revenues or sales; (xvi) costs; (xvii) cash flow, including operating cash flow, free cash flow or cash flow per share; (xviii) working capital; (xix) changes in net assets (whether or not multiplied by a constant percentage intended to represent the cost of capital); (xx) return on assets; (xxi) economic value added; (xxii) price to earnings growth ratio; and (xxiii) total shareholder return. The foregoing criteria may relate to the Company, one or more of its Subsidiaries or one or more of its divisions, units, partnerships, joint ventures or minority investments, product lines or products or any combination of the foregoing, and may be applied on an absolute basis and/or be relative to one or more peer group companies of indices, or any combination thereof, all as the Committee shall determine and specify in writing. In addition to any adjustments provided by the Award, in determining attainment of the performance goals for an Award, the Committee shall exclude unusual items whose exclusion has the effect of increasing performance if such items constitute "extraordinary items" under generally accepted accounting principles or are unusual events or items. In addition, the Committee will adjust its calculations in this regard to exclude the unanticipated effect on financial results of changes in the Code or other tax laws, or the regulations relating thereto. The maximum amount payable under all Awards granted with respect to a fiscal year for any participant of the Company shall be 2% of the Company's income from continuing operations before provision for income taxes and equity in net income of affiliates, adjusted to exclude non-core gains and charges.
(b) Payment. The Committee shall determine whether, with respect to a Performance Period, the applicable performance goals have been met with respect to a given Participant and, if they have, to so certify and ascertain the amount of the applicable Award. No Awards will be paid for such Performance Period until such certification
 
is made by the Committee. The amount of the Award actually paid to a given Participant may be less than the amount determined by the applicable performance goal formula (including zero), at the discretion of the Committee. The amount of the Award determined by the Committee for a Performance Period shall be paid to the Participant at such time as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion after the end of such Performance Period, but in no event later than the fifteenth day of the third month that begins after the end of the month that contains the last day of the Performance Period.
(c) Compliance with Section 162(m) of the Code. The provisions of this Section 5 shall be administered and interpreted in accordance with Section 162(m) of the Code to ensure the deductibility by the Company or its Subsidiaries of the payment of Awards. Subject to the preceding sentence, in the event the Committee determines that compliance with Section 162(m) of the Code is not desired with respect to a particular Award, compliance with Section 162(m) of the Code shall not be required. In addition, if any provision of the Plan would cause Awards that are intended to constitute "qualified performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, to fail to so qualify, that provision shall be severed from, and shall be deemed not to be a part of, the Plan, but the other provisions of the Plan shall remain in full force and effect.
(d) Termination of Employment. If a Participant dies, retires, is assigned to a different position, is granted a leave of absence, or if the Participant's employment is otherwise terminated (except with cause by the Company, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) during a Performance Period (other than a Performance Period in which a Change in Control occurs), a pro rata share of the Participant's award based on the period of actual participation shall be paid to the Participant after the end of the Performance Period, but only to the extent it would have become earned and payable, in accordance with the preceding provisions of this Section 5, had the Participant's employment status not changed; provided, however, that the amount of the Award actually paid to a given Participant may be less than the amount determined by the applicable performance goal formula (including zero), at the discretion of the Committee.
6. AMENDMENTS OR TERMINATION
The Board or the Committee may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made which would diminish any of the rights under any Award theretofore granted to a Participant under the Plan without such Participant's consent; provided, however, that the Board or the Committee may amend the Plan in such manner as it deems necessary to permit the granting of Awards meeting the requirements of the Code or other applicable laws. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Board or the Committee may not amend, alter or discontinue the provisions relating to Section 10(b) of the Plan after the occurrence of a Change in Control.
7. NO RIGHT TO EMPLOYMENT
Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as giving any Participant or other person any right to continue to be employed by or perform services for the Company or any Subsidiary, and the right to terminate the employment of or performance of services by any Participant at any time and for any reason is specifically reserved to the Company and its Subsidiaries.
8. NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF AWARDS
An award shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.
9. REDUCTION OF AWARDS
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the Committee, in its sole discretion (but subject to applicable law), may reduce any amounts payable to any Participant hereunder in order to satisfy any liabilities owed to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries by the Participant.
 
10. ADJUSTMENTS UPON CERTAIN EVENTS
(a) Generally. In the event of any change in the outstanding Shares by reason of any Share dividend or split, reorganization, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination or exchange of Shares or other corporate exchange, or any distribution to stockholders of Shares other than regular cash dividends or any similar transaction to the foregoing, the Committee in its sole discretion and without liability to any person may make such substitution or adjustment, if any, as it deems to be equitable, as to any affected terms of outstanding Awards.
(b) Change in Control. In the event that (i) a Participant's employment is actually or constructively terminated during a given Performance Period (the "Affected Performance Period") and (ii) a Change in Control shall have occurred within the 365 days immediately preceding the date of such termination, then such Participant shall receive, promptly after the date of such termination, an Award for the Affected Performance Period as if the performance goals for such Performance Period had been achieved at 100%.
11. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
The Company is the sponsor and legal obligor under the Plan and shall make all payments hereunder, other than any payments to be made by any of the Subsidiaries (in which case payment shall be made by such Subsidiary, as appropriate). The Company shall not be required to establish any special or separate fund or to make any other segregation of assets to ensure the payment of any amounts under the Plan, and the Participants' rights to the payment hereunder shall be no greater than the rights of the Company's (or Subsidiary's) unsecured creditors. All expenses involved in administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company.
12. CHOICE OF LAW
The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts made and to be performed in the State of Delaware.
13. EFFECTIVENESS OF THE PLAN
The re-approved Plan, as amended shall be effective as of May 3, 2011.
 


