FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20110526163441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The purpose of this filing is to report to you changes to the positions held by certain of our executive officers.
Table of Contents
On May 26, 2011, D&B announced changes to the positions held by certain of its executive officers. Such changes shall be effective June 1, 2011 and provide for periods of transition, as appropriate:
 
 
 
 
A copy of our press release dated May 26, 2011 regarding the above changes to our executive management team is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
 
On May 26, 2011, we issued a press release which reaffirmed our 2011 full-year financial guidance. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 7.01 by reference.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: May 26, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SHORT HILLS, N.J., May 26, 2011 (BUSINESS WIRE)  D&B (NYSE: DNB), the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, today announced several leadership changes to officers who report to the CEO.
"To strengthen and streamline our operations, I am announcing important changes in my leadership team, which will become effective June 1, 2011" said Sara Mathew, D&B's Chairman and CEO.
. Mr. Veldran, currently our Chief Strategy Officer, joined D&B in 2003 and held positions of progressively increasing responsibility, including CFO of North America, Treasurer, and Leader of Global Reengineering. Mr. Veldran replaces Anastasios G. (Tasos) Konidaris, who has made a decision to leave the organization to pursue other professional opportunities.
Richard H. Veldran is appointed Chief Financial Officer for D&B reporting to the CEO
 
 
Mr. Conti joined D&B in 2003 and has held positions of progressively increasing responsibility, including President of Europe, Leader of North America Small Business and Leader of Corporate Strategy. Mr. Conti will assume leadership of our International business, which includes Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America, while maintaining leadership for Strategy and Human Resources.
Emanuele A. Conti is appointed President, D&B International and continues as Chief Administrative Officer of D&B.
Mr. Vielehr joined D&B in 2005 as Chief Information Officer, and his current role is President, Global Risk and Analytics. Mr. Vielehr will be responsible for driving growth in our North America business while implementing the capabilities related to our Strategic Technology Investment. Mr. Vielehr will replace George I. Stoeckert, who has made a decision to leave the organization to pursue other professional opportunities.
Byron C. Vielehr is appointed President, North America and retains leadership of Strategic Technology Investment.
Mr. Peirez joined D&B in 2010 as President Innovation and Chief Marketing Officer. Mr. Peirez will assume responsibility for Global Risk and Analytics while also retaining responsibilities for our Sales and Marketing Solutions (S&MS), Global Marketing, Innovation and Data.
Joshua L. Peirez is appointed President, Global Product, Marketing and Innovation.
"I want to thank Tasos and George for their many contributions to D&B and wish them continued success. Looking forward, I am confident that Rich, Emanuele, Byron and Josh have the experience and expertise to deliver our 2011 guidance and sustained growth in 2012 and beyond," Sara Mathew concluded.
About Dun & Bradstreet (D&B)
Dun & Bradstreet (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence for 170 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 195 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides solution sets that meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions
TM
to mitigate credit and supplier risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions
TM
to increase
 
 
 
 
revenue from new and existing customers; and D&B Internet Solutions
TM
to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries, over the web. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements
This press release contains projections of future results and other forward-looking statements that involve a number of trends, risks and uncertainties, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The following important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For a more detailed discussion of the trends, risks and uncertainties that may affect D&B's operating and financial results and its ability to achieve the financial objectives discussed in this press release, readers should review the Company's filings with the SEC, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Copies of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q are available on its Web site at www.dnb.com and on the SEC's Web site at www.sec.gov. D&B cautions that the foregoing list of important factors is not complete and except as otherwise required by federal securities laws does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 


