FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20110804165024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
The purpose of this filing is to report that Douglas Kehring was appointed to our Board of Directors on August 3, 2011.
 
Table of Contents
On August 4, 2011, we issued a press release announcing that Douglas Kehring was appointed to our Board of Directors on August 3, 2011. It has not yet been determined on which Board committees Mr. Kehring will serve. Mr. Kehring will receive the standard compensation amounts payable to non-employee directors in 2011 as described in our Proxy Statement, including an initial stock option grant in connection with his appointment, and he will enter into our standard form of Indemnification Agreement.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: August 4, 2011
 

 
 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
Short Hills, NJ  August 4, 2011 - D&B (NYSE: DNB), the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, today announced that Douglas Kehring was elected to D&B's Board of Directors on August 3, 2011.
"We are delighted to welcome Doug to our Board of Directors," stated Sara Mathew, D&B's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "His experience in strategy and business development as well as his deep expertise in the technology arena will be invaluable as we execute our strategic transformation."
Mr. Kehring is Senior Vice President, Corporate Development & Strategic Planning, for Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL), the world's largest enterprise software company and a leading provider of computer hardware products and services.
About
Dun & Bradstreet
(D&B)
Dun & Bradstreet (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence for 170 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 200 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides solution sets that meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions
to mitigate credit and supplier risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions
to increase revenue from new and existing customers; and D&B Internet Solutions
to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries, over the web. For more information, please visit www.dnb.com.
 


