FILE:DNB/DNB-8K-20120319060354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
EX-99.1: PRESS RELEASE
 
 
 
On March 18, 2012, Dun & Bradstreet announced that it has temporarily suspended its Shanghai Roadway D&B Marketing Services Co Ltd. operations in China, pending an investigation into allegations that its data collection practices may violate local Chinese consumer data privacy laws. D&B acquired Roadway's operations in 2009, and for 2011 Roadway accounted for approximately $23 million in revenue and $2 million in operating income.
In addition, D&B has been reviewing certain allegations that local employees may have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain other laws in our China operations. D&B is cooperating with the local Chinese investigation, and has voluntarily reported these matters to the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
D&B will continue to actively pursue these investigations until the matter is satisfactorily resolved.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference in this Item 8.01.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: March 18, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 D&B (NYSE: DNB), the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, announced today that it has temporarily suspended its Shanghai Roadway D&B Marketing Services Co Ltd. operations in China, pending an investigation into allegations that its data collection practices may violate local Chinese consumer data privacy laws. D&B acquired Roadway's operations in 2009, and for 2011 Roadway accounted for approximately $23 million in revenue and $2 million in operating income.
SHORT HILLS, N.J.  MARCH
18
, 2012
In addition, D&B has been reviewing certain allegations that local employees may have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain other laws in our China operations. D&B is cooperating with the local Chinese investigation, and has voluntarily reported these matters to the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
D&B will continue to actively pursue these investigations until the matter is satisfactorily resolved.
About Dun & Bradstreet (D&B)
Dun & Bradstreet (NYSE:DNB) is the world's leading source of commercial information and insight on businesses, enabling companies to Decide with Confidence for 170 years. D&B's global commercial database contains more than 205 million business records. The database is enhanced by D&B's proprietary DUNSRight Quality Process, which provides our customers with quality business information. This quality information is the foundation of our global solutions that customers rely on to make critical business decisions.
D&B provides solution sets that meet a diverse set of customer needs globally. Customers use D&B Risk Management Solutions to mitigate credit and supplier risk, increase cash flow and drive increased profitability; D&B Sales & Marketing Solutions to increase revenue from new and existing customers; and D&B Internet Solutions to convert prospects into clients faster by enabling business professionals to research companies, executives and industries, over the web.
For more information, please visit .
www.dnb.com
 
 


