FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20031028072953.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report.
Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 28, 2003, Cooper Cameron Corporation issued a press release announcing its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains a "non-GAAP financial measure" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measure reflects earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense ("EBITDA"). A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") is included as an attachment to the press release. The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Company's investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Company's operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Company's securities and making strategic acquisitions. In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community, and the Company also uses EBITDA as a performance measure in its corporate bonus program.
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 28, 2003
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
2003-9
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
COOPER CAMERON THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS TOTAL $0.63 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (October 28, 2003)  Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $36.2 million, or $0.63 per share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. This compares with net income of $20.7 million, or $0.37 per share, for the third quarter of 2002. Included in the current quarter was income of $12.2 million, or $0.21 per share, related to the cumulative effect of adopting a newly issued accounting standard. In addition, the quarter's selling and administrative expense included after-tax charges totaling $4.3 million, or $0.08 per share, related to the Company's efforts to acquire a certain oil service business and, to a lesser extent, for severance costs in the Cameron division. Total revenues for the quarter were $429.1 million, up 12 percent from 2002's $383.8 million, and income before the adoption of the accounting change was $24.0 million, up nearly 16 percent from 2002's $20.7 million.
Accounting standard adopted, charges taken for acquisition efforts and severance; consolidated revenues increase, both year-over-year and sequentially
     Cooper Cameron Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that the Company was required to adopt Financial Accounting Standards No. 150 (FAS 150), which came into effect July 1, 2003. Under FAS 150, the estimated fair value of the Company's stock purchase agreements was recorded as a cumulative effect of an accounting change upon adoption of the Standard. In August, the Company closed out these agreements, which had a market value of $50.2 million, for a cash payment of approximately $38.0 million, resulting in a net $12.2 million gain. The associated shares were placed into treasury stock. Cooper Cameron currently has no agreements outstanding that are subject to FAS 150.
     Erikson also noted that selling and administrative expenses for the quarter included $4.3 million of after-tax charges, or $0.08 per share, related to costs incurred in connection with the
 
Company's efforts to acquire a certain oil service business, as well as employee severance costs associated with a voluntary reduction in force program in Cameron. Erikson further noted that Cameron expects to incur approximately $3.0 million, after tax, of additional costs associated with this reduction in force program in the fourth quarter. He noted that the annual savings associated with this program are expected to be approximately $8.0 million.
     Erikson said Cooper Cameron's consolidated revenues for the quarter were higher than year-ago levels and on a sequential basis, due primarily to increases in the Cameron division's subsea business. He also noted that the Company's quarterly consolidated income before taxes was higher, both year-over-year and sequentially, primarily due to an increase at Cameron.
Cameron results reflect increase in subsea project revenues
     Erikson noted that although each of Cameron's product lines showed revenue increases from year-ago levels, subsea-related revenues accounted for the majority of the increase in the division's profits. "While subsea revenues are higher sequentially," Erikson said, "we have not seen them increase at the pace we had expected during the second half of 2003." Erikson also noted that the timing of equipment deliveries on subsea projects will continue to be a significant factor in the Company's performance for the next few quarters.
Cooper Cameron Valves (CCV) revenues increase due to Nutron acquisition
     CCV's oilfield valve quarterly revenues were up from the prior year due mainly to the December 2002 acquisition of Nutron Industries, offsetting a decline in the engineered products business. Sequentially, revenues increased about five percent and margins improved across the division's product lines. Erikson noted that CCV's margins, while relatively stable year-to-date, may come under some pressure during the balance of the year as a result of continued weakness in the pipeline ball valve market resulting from, among other factors, fewer domestic projects and pricing deterioration.
Cooper Compression results reflect difficult market
     Cooper Compression's quarterly revenues were flat sequentially, but previously undertaken cost improvement programs positively impacted margins for the quarter. Margins are expected to continue to show a positive trend in the fourth quarter.
Fourth quarter earnings to be similar to third
     "We currently expect Cooper Cameron's fourth quarter earnings to be approximately $0.45 to $0.50 per share, which includes additional severance charges of approximately $0.05 per share," Erikson said. "This represents a reduction from our earlier expectations, and primarily reflects manufacturing delays caused by third-party suppliers of certain components for Cameron's subsea equipment, as well as continued softness in the Gulf of Mexico and North
 
Sea markets." He noted that it is too early to provide specific guidance for next year, and that the Company expects to provide a forecast of 2004 results shortly after the first of the year.
Cash flows, balance sheet remain strong
     Cooper Cameron's total debt, net of cash and short-term investments, at September 30, 2003 was $151.7 million, down from $168.8 million at December 31, 2002. Erikson noted that during the quarter, the Company spent approximately $38.0 million on share repurchase and $13.6 million on capital expenditures. The Company's net debt-to-total capitalization ratio at the quarter's end was approximately 12.1 percent. Erikson said that Cooper Cameron's focus on generating cash from operations has given the Company the flexibility to pursue such opportunities as acquisitions and stock repurchases.
Annual orders ahead of year-ago pace, backlog near record levels
     Orders received during the third quarter of 2003 totaled $421 million, up three percent sequentially, but down 30 percent from $601 million a year ago, which was the highest quarterly orders total in the Company's history. Erikson noted that the Company's total orders for the first nine months of the year, at $1.34 billion, are ahead of 2002's pace. "We expect full-year 2003 orders to exceed revenues," Erikson said, "allowing us to once again post an increase in total backlog for the year."
     At September 30, 2003, the Company's backlog was $980 million, down slightly from a high of $989 million, reached as of the end of the second quarter. Backlog is up 15 percent from the September 30, 2002 level of $850 million.
     Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) is a leading international manufacturer of oil and gas pressure control equipment, including valves, wellheads, controls, chokes, blowout preventers and assembled systems for oil and gas drilling, production and transmission used in onshore, offshore and subsea applications. Cooper Cameron is also a leading manufacturer of centrifugal air compressors, integral and separable gas compressors and turbochargers.
Visit Cooper Cameron's home page on the World Wide Web at
www.coopercameron.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including fourth quarter earnings per share estimates), made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company's actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations of the Company's performance and are subject to a variety of factors that can affect the Company's results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Company's products; the size and timing of
 
orders; the Company's ability to successfully execute the large subsea projects it has been awarded; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; variations in global economic activity; and changes in the financial markets. In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have affected customers' spending levels and their related purchases of the Company's products and services. Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Company's financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels in reliance thereon.
     Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Company's future performance. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable securities laws and regulations.
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Results Of Operations ($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Results Of Operations ($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Consolidated Balance Sheets ($ millions, except shares and per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Orders and Backlog ($ millions)
Orders
Backlog
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information ($ millions)


