FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20041029074504.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 29, 2004, Cooper Cameron Corporation issued a press release announcing its results of the third quarter ended September 30, 2004. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits:
     The following are being furnished as exhibits to this report:
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains a "non-GAAP financial measure" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measure reflects earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense ("EBITDA"). A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") is included as an attachment to the press release. The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Company's investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Company's operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Company's securities and making strategic acquisitions. In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
2004-17
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
COOPER CAMERON THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS TOTAL $0.55 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (October 29, 2004)  Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $29.5 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, including a non-cash after-tax write-down of $2.7 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, related to a technology investment. This compares with net income of $36.2 million, or $0.63 per share, for the third quarter of 2003. The year-ago quarter included, on a net basis, income of $7.9 million, or $0.13 per share, comprised of a gain associated with the adoption of a new accounting standard and costs associated with an acquisition effort and severance. Total revenues for the quarter were $538.5 million, up 25 percent from 2003's $429.1 million, and net income was $29.5 million, up 23 percent from 2003's $24.0 million of income before the cumulative effect of the accounting change.
Year-over-year revenue increase driven by Cameron, Cooper Cameron Valves (CCV)
     Cooper Cameron Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that Cooper Cameron's consolidated revenues for the quarter were significantly higher than year-ago levels, due primarily to the early 2004 acquisition of Petreco, included in Cameron's results, increased subsea deliveries from Cameron and increased revenues from CCV.
Cameron results reflect increase in subsea, addition of Petreco
     Erikson noted that Cameron's revenues were up nearly $100 million from the year-ago quarter, with about $42 million coming from Petreco. The balance of the increase was primarily in Cameron's subsea business.
 
CCV revenues higher
     CCV's quarterly revenues were up about 11 percent from the prior year due to increased deliveries from the engineered products group, which provides valves for pipeline projects and the industrial markets.
Cooper Compression margins improve
     Cooper Compression's revenues were up only modestly sequentially and from year-ago levels, but profitability continued to improve due to the benefits of recent restructuring efforts.
Acquisition fuels year-over year increase in orders
     Orders received during the third quarter of 2004 totaled $457.7 million, down seven percent sequentially, but up more than eight percent from the $421.2 million of a year ago. Erikson noted that the Company's total orders for the first nine months of the year, at $1.37 billion, are slightly ahead of 2003's $1.34 billion for the same period. "The acquisition of Petreco, which has added about $86 million to orders year-to-date, has allowed us to post an increase in orders thus far," Erikson said. "Meanwhile, our backlog declined as revenues, driven by subsea deliveries, exceeded $500 million for the second consecutive quarter."
     At September 30, 2004, the Company's backlog was $867.7 million, down about nine percent from $955.0 million as of the end of the second quarter. Backlog declined by approximately 12 percent from the September 30, 2003 level of $980.5 million.
Cash flows, balance sheet remain strong
     Cooper Cameron's net debt (total debt net of cash and short-term investments) at September 30, 2004 was $211.2 million, up from $155.0 million at December 31, 2003. Erikson noted that while the Company spent approximately $25.8 million on share repurchases and $9.9 million on capital expenditures during the quarter, net debt-to-total capitalization declined to 15.5 percent at quarter's end. "Our continuing focus on generating cash from operations has given us the flexibility to pursue such opportunities as acquisitions and stock repurchases," he said. Erikson also noted that the previously announced acquisition of certain valve manufacturing businesses from Precision Castparts Corp. is expected to close in early December and should add approximately $0.10 per share to Cooper Cameron's 2005 earnings.
 
Fourth quarter earnings to be similar to third
     "We currently expect Cooper Cameron's fourth quarter earnings to be approximately $0.50 to $0.54 per diluted share, which reflects the acceleration of certain subsea deliveries into the third quarter," Erikson said, "and we expect full-year earnings of approximately $1.70 to $1.75 per diluted share."
     Erikson said that it is too early to provide specific guidance for next year, and that the Company expects to provide a forecast of 2005 results shortly after the first of the year. Erikson noted that despite the fact that subsea activity is forecast to grow significantly over the next several years, continued delays in awards of large subsea systems projects, particularly those located offshore West Africa, are likely to affect the Company's forecast for 2005. "While we have not yet attempted to frame a range of guidance for next year's earnings," he said, "the continued slippage in timing of significant subsea project awards, coupled with the fact that we recognize revenue as product is delivered, is likely to have a dampening effect on our expectations for late 2005."
     Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) is a leading international manufacturer of oil and gas pressure control equipment, including valves, wellheads, controls, chokes, blowout preventers and assembled systems for oil and gas drilling, production and transmission used in onshore, offshore and subsea applications, and provides oil and gas separation equipment. Cooper Cameron is also a leading manufacturer of centrifugal air compressors, integral and separable gas compressors and turbochargers.
Website:
www.coopercameron.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including fourth quarter earnings per share estimates), made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company's actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations of the Company's performance and are subject to a variety of factors that can affect the Company's results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Company's products; the size and timing of orders; the Company's ability to successfully execute the large subsea projects it has been awarded; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; fluctuations in debt and equity markets; and variations in global economic activity. In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have directly affected customers' spending levels and their related purchases of the Company's products and services, though they have not done so recently. Additionally, changes
 
in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Company's financial results due to changes in cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
     Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Company's future performance. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Results of Operations ($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Consolidated Balance Sheets ($ millions, except shares and per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Orders and Backlog ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information ($ millions)


