FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20040728074610.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report.
Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 28, 2004, Cooper Cameron Corporation issued a press release announcing its results of the second quarter ended June 30, 2004. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains a "non-GAAP financial measure" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measure reflects earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense ("EBITDA"). A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") is included as an attachment to the press release. The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Company's investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Company's operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Company's securities and making strategic acquisitions. In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 28, 2004
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
2004-13
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
COOPER CAMERON SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.35
 -   - 
Earnings per share total $0.35 versus $0.37 a year ago
2004 full-year earnings expectations raised to $1.70 to $1.75 per share
HOUSTON (July 28, 2004)  Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $18.7 million, or $0.35 per share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2004, including a non-cash after-tax write-off of debt issuance costs of $4.6 million, or $0.09 per share. This compares with net income of $20.8 million, or $0.37 per share, for the second quarter of 2003. Total revenues were $544.6 million for the quarter, up from 2003's $400.9 million. Consolidated EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) was $57.0 million, up from 2003's $49.5 million, and income before income taxes was $27.8 million, down from $28.1 million a year ago.
Subsea shipments, acquisition fuel revenue gains
     Cooper Cameron Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that the higher revenues were attributable to increased shipments in Cameron's subsea business and the March 2004 acquisition of Petreco, which contributed approximately $35 million to this quarter's revenues.
Cameron shows significant revenue increase
     Erikson noted that excluding Petreco, Cameron achieved record revenues for the quarter, and including Petreco, revenues were up more than 50 percent from year-ago levels, due primarily to increased shipments from subsea backlog. "The increase in subsea revenues, however, includes a material amount of third-party content, which flows through our revenues at lower margins and kept Cameron's overall profit margins below traditional levels," he said. "In addition, the drilling business posted solid increases in revenues, both sequentially and compared to year-ago levels, due to project-related shipments."
 
     Erikson said that given the reduction in subsea backlog achieved this quarter, he does not expect Cameron's revenues to increase significantly during the second half of the year, and that the actual level of orders and revenues will, to a large extent, be a function of the pace of activity in a few key markets, including North America and Europe.
CCV revenues at historical highs
     CCV's revenues reached the highest quarterly total in their history, due to previously noted improvement in orders for engineered products, including pipeline ball valves. Erikson said the current order activity and business related to the U.S. rig count should keep CCV on pace toward posting the highest full-year revenues in its history.
Cooper Compression benefits from international markets
     Cooper Compression also posted sequential and year-over-year increases in revenues, as international markets continue to be strong and pipeline customers return to a more historically normal level of spending on aftermarket parts and services. Erikson said he expects revenues and profits for Cooper Compression to increase in the second half of the year.
Orders increase from year-ago levels due to Petreco addition
     Orders received during the second quarter of 2004 totaled $492 million, up 20 percent from year-ago levels, and year-to-date orders were $913 million, down slightly from the first half of 2003. Erikson noted that the second quarter increase from 2003 reflected the addition of Petreco and, despite the absence of any large projects, relatively strong subsea orders. "Although we did not book any major projects during the first half of 2004-unlike the first quarter of 2003-our year-to-date orders for all of Cooper Cameron are about even with the first half of 2003, and we expect to see full-year orders exceed our year-ago totals."
     At June 30, 2004, total backlog was $955 million, down from the prior quarter's $1.02 billion and the June 30, 2003 level of $989 million, largely due to the delivery of equipment out of Cameron's subsea backlog and continuing delays in major subsea project awards.
Balance sheet reflects refinancing steps
     At June 30, 2004, Cooper Cameron's total debt was $469.8 million, and cash was $208.6 million, resulting in net debt of $261.2 million and a net debt-to-capitalization ratio of approximately 19.1 percent. Erikson said that during the second quarter, the Company repurchased all $260 million of its zero-coupon convertible debentures; repurchased $185 million of its $200 million of 1.75 percent convertible debentures under a cash tender offer; and issued $238 million of 1.50 percent convertible debentures in a new offering. "The repurchases of the two original series of convertibles removed approximately 4.5 million shares from our fully diluted earnings per share computation," Erikson said. "The new 1.50 percent issue is a
 
contingent convertible, meaning that the underlying common shares are not included in the fully diluted calculation, subject to the Company's stock price reaching certain levels."
     Erikson said that the recent repurchase of the debentures required the non-cash after-tax write-off of some $4.6 million of previously capitalized debt issuance costs. He also noted that, in concert with the new convertible offering, the Company repurchased approximately 939,000 shares of its common stock at an average price of approximately $48.96 per share, and will continue to consider acquisition opportunities and share repurchases as uses for its cash.
     Erikson also said the Company generated approximately $64.2 million of cash from operating activities during the quarter and $69.2 million for the first six months, and that net capital spending through the first half of the year totaled approximately $20.6 million.
Earnings expectations raised
     Erikson said that Cooper Cameron's third quarter earnings are expected to increase to approximately $0.50 to $0.55 per share. He also noted that full-year earnings are expected to be approximately $1.70 to $1.75 per share, including severance charges totaling approximately $5.0 million after-tax, or $0.09 per share, and the write-off of debt issuance costs of $4.6 million after-tax, or $0.09 per share. "We expect improved earnings performance in the second half of the year from all three of our divisions," he said.
     Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) is a leading international manufacturer of oil and gas pressure control equipment, including valves, wellheads, controls, chokes, blowout preventers and assembled systems for oil and gas drilling, production and transmission used in onshore, offshore and subsea applications, and provides oil and gas separation equipment. Cooper Cameron is also a leading manufacturer of centrifugal air compressors, integral and separable gas compressors and turbochargers.
Website:
www.coopercameron.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding the future revenues and earnings of the Company (including third quarter and full year 2004 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding customer spending levels, severance costs and orders, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company's actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations of the Company's performance and are subject to a variety of factors that can affect the Company's results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Company's products; the size and timing of orders; the Company's ability to successfully execute the large subsea projects it has been awarded; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business;
 
fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; fluctuations in debt and equity markets; and variations in global economic activity. In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have directly affected customers' spending levels and their related purchases of the Company's products and services, though they have not done so recently. Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Company's financial results due to changes in cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
     Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Company's future performance. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Results Of Operations ($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Consolidated Balance Sheets ($ millions, except shares and per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Orders and Backlog ($ millions) Orders
Backlog
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information ($ millions)


