FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20051027080735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 27, 2005, Cooper Cameron Corporation issued a press release announcing its results of the third quarter ended September 30, 2005. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) Exhibits:
     The following are being furnished as exhibits to this report:
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains "non-GAAP financial measures" as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense ("EBITDA") and free cash flow. A reconciliation of EBITDA and free cash flow to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States ("GAAP") is included as an attachment to the press release. The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA and free cash flow is useful to the Company's investors because EBITDA and free cash flow are appropriate measures of evaluating the Company's operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Company's securities and making strategic acquisitions. In addition, EBITDA and free cash flow is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Company's financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 27, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
2005-18
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
COOPER CAMERON THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS TOTAL $0.86 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (October 27, 2005)  Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $49.2 million, or $0.86 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, up 56 percent compared with net income of $29.5 million, or $0.55 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2004.
Revenues increase by 18 percent for the quarter, by 15 percent year-to-date; hurricane impact minimal
     Cooper Cameron Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that the significant increase in Cooper Cameron's consolidated revenues for the quarter and for the year to date reflect the continuing solid pace of market activity in all of the Company's businesses. "Our revenues for both the third quarter and year-to-date 2005$636.6 million and $1.78 billion, respectivelyrepresent new records for the Company," he noted. Erikson also said that hurricane activity during the quarter had a limited impact on the Company's consolidated operating and financial performance. "While certain of our facilities in Louisiana and East Texas experienced disruptions related to hurricanes Katrina and Rita, there was no significant structural damage or extended loss of productivity at those locations. The overall financial impact on Cooper Cameron's results was relatively minor, and was more than offset by strong performance from the rest of the Company's operations."
Orders increase 94 percent for the quarter, 95 percent year-to-date; backlog at new high
     Orders received during the third quarter of 2005 totaled $888.8 million, up more than 94 percent from the $457.7 million of a year ago. Erikson noted that the Company's total orders for the first nine months of the year, at $2.68 billion, are nearly double 2004's $1.37 billion for the same period. "The combination of strong order flow across essentially all product lines and the
 
acquisitions we've made during the past year has driven backlog to a new record as of the quarter's end," Erikson said. At September 30, 2005, the Company's backlog totaled $1.86 billion, up nearly 15 percent from $1.62 billion as of the end of the second quarter. Backlog is up by almost $1 billion from the September 30, 2004 level of $867.7 million.
Free cash flow generation remains healthy
     Erikson said that Cooper Cameron's free cash flow (net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures) totaled $240.0 million through the first nine months of 2005, compared with approximately $93 million for the same period of 2004. "We continue to expect that capital spending for 2005 will total about $80 million," he said. "We also will have spent about $355 million on acquisitions during the year, all paid for with cash. Our divisions have done a remarkable job of keeping their focus on generating cash and improving their margins and profitability as the year has progressed."
Early termination granted on Dresser acquisition
     Erikson said the Company has been advised by the Department of Justice that it has granted Cooper Cameron's request for early termination of the waiting period related to the Company's pending acquisition of certain businesses of the Flow Control segment of Dresser, Inc. The companies had been responding to a second request from the Department of Justice for additional information on certain product lines. The transaction is expected to close during the fourth quarter of 2005.
New credit agreement in place
     Erikson also noted that during October, the Company put in place a new Revolving Credit Agreement. The new agreement, which expires on October 12, 2010, provides Cooper Cameron with an aggregate borrowing capacity of up to $350 million of floating-rate revolving credit advances or letters of credit. This facility replaces Cooper Cameron's previous $200 million revolving credit agreement, which had been slated to expire on December 12, 2007 and was canceled. None of the revised facility's borrowing capacity is currently utilized.
Balance sheet remains solid; acquisition closing to be done with cash on hand
     Cooper Cameron's total debt as of September 30, 2005 was $450.1 million, and cash and cash equivalents were $460.4 million. The Company's net debt at December 31, 2004 was $238.7 million, and net debt-to-capitalization at that time was approximately 16.3 percent. Erikson noted that the Company expects to close the pending acquisition of the Dresser businesses during the fourth quarter, which will require approximately $224 million in cash, subject to certain adjustments. "While much of our attention has been focused on executing the integration of recent acquisitions and the upcoming closure of the Dresser transaction," he said,
 
"we will continue to look at additional acquisitions and stock repurchases as avenues for redeploying the cash on our balance sheet."
Fourth quarter earnings to be up from third quarter levels
     "We currently expect Cooper Cameron's fourth quarter earnings to be approximately $0.87 to $0.92 per share, excluding any impact of the Dresser acquisition," Erikson said, "and we expect full-year earnings of approximately $2.97 to $3.02 per share. This reflects the backlog we have on hand, our commitments to deliver product during the current quarter and our expectations for short-cycle business in the current environment."
     Erikson said that it is too early to provide specific guidance for next year, and that the Company expects to provide a forecast of 2006 results shortly after the first of the year. Erikson noted that the recent strength in orders and the resulting record backlogs, combined with the impact of recent and pending acquisitions, should lay the groundwork for continued growth in earnings and cash flow into 2006. "The market environment, current level of inquiries and customers' cash flow all point toward continued strength in our businesses," he said.
     Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) is a leading international manufacturer of oil and gas pressure control equipment, including valves, wellheads, controls, chokes, blowout preventers and assembled systems for oil and gas drilling, production and transmission used in onshore, offshore and subsea applications, and provides oil and gas separation, metering and flow measurement equipment. Cooper Cameron is also a leading manufacturer of centrifugal air compressors, integral and separable gas compressors and turbochargers.
Website:
www.coopercameron.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future market strength, order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including fourth quarter and full-year earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding margins, profitability, capital spending, cash flow (including cost of acquisitions) and estimated timing of the close of the Dresser acquisition, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company's actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations of the Company's performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Company's results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Company's products; the size and timing of orders; the Company's ability to successfully execute the large subsea systems projects it has been awarded; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity. In particular, current
 
and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers' spending levels and their related purchases of the Company's products and services. Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Company's financial results due to changes in cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
     Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Company's future performance. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations .
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Results Of Operations ($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Consolidated Balance Sheets ($ millions, except shares and per share data)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Unaudited Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Orders and Backlog ($ millions)
Orders
Backlog
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information ($ millions)
 
Cooper Cameron Corporation Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information ($ millions)


