FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20050726172351.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Director Compensation -- On July 21, 2005, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a Compensation Program for Non-Employee Directors. The components are: (i) an annual retainer of $50,000, (ii) an annual retainer for the Chair of the Audit Committee of $15,000, (iii) an annual retainer for other Committee Chairs of $10,000, (iv) a voluntary deferral of cash Board and Committee retainers, into either deferred stock units (DSUs) to be distributed in shares of Company stock at the earlier of termination of Board service or three years, with the ability to voluntarily defer for a longer period of time, or cash accounts with the same investment options available to employees under the 401(k) plan, (v) an annual equity grant of 2,000 DSUs, (vi) an initial equity grant upon election as a Director of 3,000 DSUs, and (vii) stock ownership (including DSUs) requirement of five times the annual retainer to be attained within 3 years.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On July 21, 2005, Jack B. Moore was elected a senior vice president of the Company. A press release announcing the elected is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report. Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of Cooper Cameron Corporation, dated July 22, 2005 -- Cooper Cameron to Restructure Cameron Division.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
2005-14
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
COOPER CAMERON TO RESTRUCTURE CAMERON DIVISION
HOUSTON (July 22, 2005)  Cooper Cameron Corporation is restructuring its Cameron division, effective October 1, 2005.
Jack B. Moore, president of the Cameron division, will also be named as a senior vice president of Cooper Cameron Corporation. The following officers will report directly to Moore and will head their respective business units:
Harold E. Conway, Jr., president, Drilling Systems;
Gary M. Halverson, president, Surface Systems;
Hal J. Goldie, president, Subsea Systems; and
Britt O. Schmidt, vice president and general manager, Chokes and Actuators.
Also, the following will continue to report to Moore:
Steven P. Beatty, vice president, Finance;
Edward E. Will, vice president, Marketing;
S. Joe Vinson, vice president, Human Resources.
Cooper Cameron Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that the new organization will allow the Company to better address specific market opportunities. "Each of these business units will have global responsibility for all customers using its products and services," Erikson said. "We believe this will sharpen our focus on specific customer requirements, support a more rapid pace of development of new products and services in response to customers' needs and provide additional growth opportunities on a global basis."
Cooper Cameron Corporation (NYSE: CAM) is a leading international manufacturer of oil and gas pressure control equipment, including valves, wellheads, controls, chokes, blowout preventers and assembled systems for oil and gas drilling, production and transmission used in onshore, offshore and subsea applications, and provides oil and gas separation, metering and flow measurement equipment. Cooper Cameron is also a leading manufacturer of centrifugal air compressors, integral and separable gas compressors and turbochargers.
Website:
www.coopercameron.com


