FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20060609062832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On June 6, 2006, Cameron International Corporation ("Cameron") issued a press release announcing the appointment of Joseph H. Mongrain as Vice President, Human Resources. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of Cameron, dated June 6, 2006 -- Cameron Names Joseph H. Mongrain as Vice President, Human Resourcees
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
CAMERON NAMES JOSEPH H. MONGRAIN AS VICE PRESIDENT, HUMAN RESOURCES
HOUSTON (June 6, 2006)  Cameron (NYSE: CAM) has named Joseph H. Mongrain as vice president, Human Resources, responsible for the Company's worldwide succession planning, employee relations, compensation and benefit programs. He replaces Jane C. Schmitt, who plans to retire from Cameron later this year.
Mongrain had been with Schlumberger Limited since 1980, serving most recently as director, Human Resources for one of the firm's global divisions in Houston, and prior to that, as director, Human Resources for Schlumberger's North and South America region. His experience includes recruiting, compensation, benefits and employee development. Mongrain holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Ocean Engineering from Florida Institute of Technology. Cameron Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said, "Joe brings a wealth of experience in human resource practices from his time at Schlumberger, and we are pleased to be able to add someone with his talents and background to the Cameron management team."
Schmitt, who joined the Company as director, Compensation & Benefits in 1995 and was elected a vice president in 1996, will continue in an advisory and consulting role during the transition process. Erikson said, "Jane has played an integral part in establishing Cameron's position as a premier employer in the oil service industry and in assimilating the diverse employee groups we have added through numerous acquisitions over our history. We are pleased that she will continue in an advisory role for the next few months, and we wish her only the best in retirement."
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com


