FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20061116171705.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Top of the Form
Regulation FD Disclosure, Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Cameron International Corporation ("Cameron") has furnished this report to disclose, for Regulation FD purposes, that on November 16, 2006, it issued a press release announcing Cameron has been awarded a ten-year frame agreement by BP's Deepwater Production Business Unit to provide subsea systems and related services to BP in the Gulf of Mexico. The press release is included as exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits:
 
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Top of the Form

 
Exhibit 99.1
2006-16
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
HOUSTON (November 16, 2006)  Cameron (NYSE: CAM), through its Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) division, has entered into a ten-year frame agreement with BP to provide subsea systems and related services for BP's Deepwater Production Business Unit's Subsea Tie-back program, as well as for future subsea developments managed by BP's Deepwater Developments Business Unit in the Gulf of Mexico. The first order under the new agreement, which covers subsea trees, controls, manifolds and well connection systems, is expected to be for a multi-well subsea tie-back project.
     Cameron Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said, "We are pleased that BP has chosen Cameron as the preferred supplier of subsea systems for its future developments in the Gulf of Mexico." Erikson noted that as specific orders are received from BP under this agreement, they will be reflected in orders and backlog in the Company's quarterly earnings reports.
     Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com


