FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20060530160940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
A. .
Purchase Agreement
 
(collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"). The Purchase Agreement also granted the Initial Purchasers an option to purchase up to an additional $75 million aggregate principal amount of the Notes to cover overallotments. The net proceeds from the offering, excluding any proceeds that may result from the exercise of the option to purchase additional Notes, after deducting the Initial Purchasers' discount and the offering expenses payable by Cameron, are approximately $491,125,000. A copy of the Purchase Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1, is incorporated herein by reference, and is hereby filed; the description of the Purchase Agreement in this report is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Purchase Agreement.
to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. were the initial purchasers of the Notes
On May 23, 2006, Cameron International Corporation ("Cameron") entered into a purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") under which it agreed to sell $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the "Notes")
 
The closing of the sale of the Notes occurred on May 26, 2006. The Notes and Cameron's common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), issuable in certain circumstances upon exchange of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act. Cameron sold the Notes to the Initial Purchasers in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. The Initial Purchasers then sold the Notes to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act. Cameron relied on these exemptions from registration based in part on representations made by the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement.
 
The holders of the Notes who exchange their Notes in connection with a change in control, as defined in the Indenture, may be entitled to a make-whole premium in the form of an increase in the exchange rate. Additionally, in the event of a change in control, the holders of the Notes may require Cameron to purchase all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.
 
B. .
The Indenture
 
In connection with the closing, Cameron entered into an indenture (the "Indenture"), dated May 26, 2006, between Cameron and SunTrust Bank, as trustee (the "Trustee"), governing the Notes, and issued a global note (the "Global Note") in the aggregate principal amount of $500 million in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Corporation. The Indenture is attached as Exhibit 4.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. The following descriptions of the Indenture and the Global Note are summaries only and are qualified in their entirety by reference to Exhibit 4.1.
 
The material terms and conditions of the Indenture and the Notes are as follows:
 
: June 15, 2026
Maturity
 
: Holders may convert their Notes before the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding June 15, 2011 in multiples of $1,000 principal amount, at the option of the holder, under the following circumstances:
Conversion Rights
 
during any fiscal quarter after the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2006 if the closing sale price of Cameron's common stock exceeds 130% of the then current conversion price for at least 20 consecutive trading days in the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter;
 - 
 
during the five business-day period after any five consecutive trading-day period (the "measurement period") in which the trading price per Note for each day of such measurement period was less than 97% of the product of the last reported sale price of Cameron's common stock and the conversion rate on each such day;
 - 
upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions; or
 - 
 
upon receipt of a notice of redemption.
 - 
 
On or after June 15, 2011 to (and including) the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, subject to prior repurchase of the Notes, holders may convert the Notes, in multiples of $1,000 principal amount, at the option of the holder regardless of the foregoing circumstances. The initial conversion rate will be 14.1328 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $70.76 per share of common stock) subject to adjustment.
 
Upon conversion, a Holder will receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) the principal amount of the Note or (ii) the conversion value, determined in the manner set forth in the offering memorandum. If the conversion value exceeds the principal amount of the Note on the conversion date, Cameron also will deliver, at its election, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the remaining shares.
 
In addition, if a "fundamental change" occurs before maturity, Cameron will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such a fundamental change upon conversion in certain circumstances as described in the offering memorandum.
 
Holders will not receive any additional cash payment or additional shares representing accrued and unpaid interest and additional interest, if any, upon conversion of a Note, except in limited circumstances. Instead, interest will be deemed paid by the cash and shares, if any, of common stock issued to the holders upon conversion.
 
: If Cameron undergoes a "fundamental change" (as defined in the offering memorandum), holders will have the option to require Cameron to purchase all or any portion of the holder's Notes. The fundamental change purchase price will be 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest, to but excluding the fundamental change purchase date. Cameron will pay cash for all Notes so purchased.
Fundamental Change
 
In addition, if a "fundamental change" occurs before maturity, Cameron will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such a fundamental change upon conversion in certain circumstances as described in the offering memorandum.
 
Each holder of the Notes may require Cameron to repurchase all or a portion of that holder's Notes on June 15 of 2011, 2016 and 2021, at a repurchase price in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the repurchase date.
Repurchase of Notes at the Option of the Holder:
 
: The Notes will rank equally in right of payment with all of Cameron's other unsecured indebtedness and senior to any of Cameron's subordinated indebtedness. The Notes will be effectively subordinated to any secured indebtedness Cameron may incur to the extent of the collateral securing such indebtedness.
Ranking
 
. The following constitute events of default under the Indenture that could, subject to certain conditions, cause the unpaid principal on the Notes to become due and payable:
Events of Default
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and state securities laws. This Current Report on Form 8-K is not an offer to sell the Notes nor is it soliciting an offer to buy the Notes.
 
C. .
The Registration Rights Agreement
 
In connection with the completion of the sale of the Notes, on May 26, 2006, Cameron entered into a registration rights agreement with the Initial Purchasers (the "Registration Rights Agreement") for the benefit of the holders of the Notes. Under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, Cameron is required to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission a registration statement for the registration of the Notes and the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes within 90 days after the closing. Cameron has agreed to use its best efforts to cause the registration statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act within 210 days after the closing. If Cameron fails to comply with certain of its obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement, additional liquidated damages will be payable on the Notes at a rate per year equal to 0.25% for the first 90-day period and at a rate per year equal to 0.50% thereafter of the aggregate principal amount of such Notes. The Registration Rights Agreement is attached as Exhibit 4.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
See disclosure under Item 1.01 hereof.
 
 
See disclosure under Item 1.01 hereof.
 
 
to sell the Notes is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Cameron's press release dated May 22, 2006, announcing Cameron's intention
 
Cameron's press release dated May 23, 2006, announcing the pricing of the Notes is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE dated as of May 26, 2006 between CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and SUNTRUST BANK, a Georgia banking corporation, as trustee (the "").
Company
Trustee
 
Each party agrees as follows for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Company's 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026:
 
Definitions.
Section 1.1
                       
 
"" when used with respect to the Holders shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.4(a).
Act
 
"" means the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 issuable from time to time following the Closing Date and the Option Closing Date by the Company pursuant to this Indenture.
Additional Securities
 
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 12.1(f).
Additional Shares
 
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 12.4(j).
Adjustment Determination Date
 
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 12.4(j).
Adjustment Event
 
"" of any specified person means any other person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified person means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b).
Agent Members
 
"" means the Conversion Rate on any Trading Day.
Applicable Conversion Rate
 
"" means, with respect to any transfer or transaction involving a Global Security or beneficial interest therein, the rules and procedures of the Depositary for such Security, in each case to the extent applicable to such transaction and as in effect from time to time.
Applicable Procedures
 
 "" means Title 11 of the United States Code, or any similar federal or State law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
 "" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of such board.
Board of Directors
 
"" means a resolution of the Board of Directors.
Board Resolution
 
"" means each day of the year other than a Saturday or a Sunday or other day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are required or authorized by law or regulation to close.
Business Day
 
"" of any Person means any and all shares, interests, rights to purchase, acquire or exchange, warrants, options, participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) equity ownership interests issued by that Person.
Capital Stock
 
"" means such coin or currency of the United States as at any time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
cash
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.2(b).
Cash Percentage
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.2(b).
Cash Percentage Notice
 
"" means Securities that are in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A and that do not include the information called for by footnotes 1 and 3 thereof.
Certificated Securities
 
"" means the date of the closing of the initial issuance of an aggregate of $500 Million aggregate principal amount of Securities hereunder, May 26, 2006.
Closing Date
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
"" means the common stock, $0.01 par value per share, of the Company as that stock exists on the date of this Indenture or any other shares of Capital Stock of the Company into which such Common Stock shall be reclassified or changed.
Common Stock
 
"" means the party named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any such subsequent successor or successors.
Company
 
"" or "" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers, at least one of whom is the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, an Executive Vice President or a Senior Vice President.
Company Request
Company Order
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.
Conversion Agent
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.2(c).
Conversion Date
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 12.1.
Conversion Obligation
 
"" means, at any time, $1,000 divided by the Conversion Rate in effect at such time rounded to two decimal places (rounded up if the third decimal place thereof is 5 or more and otherwise rounded down).
Conversion Price
 
"" means initially 14.1328 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustment as set forth herein.
Conversion Rate
 
"" means (a) for Securities that are converted during the period beginning on the 30th day prior to the Stated Maturity, the 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Stated Maturity and (b) in all other instances, the 30 consecutive Trading Days beginning on the third Trading Day following the Conversion Date.
Conversion Reference Period
 
"" means, per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, the amount equal to the average of the products for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period of (a) the Applicable Conversion Rate for such day multiplied by (b) the average of the Volume Weighted Average Price per share of the Common Stock on such day.
Conversion Value
 
"" means the office of the Trustee in New York City at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered for certain purposes of this Indenture which office at the date of the execution of this Indenture is located at 125 Broad Street, 3rd Floor, NY, NY 10004 c/o SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Capital Markets, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the corporate trust office of any successor Trustee in New York City (or such other address as a successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
"" means any receiver, trustee, assignee, liquidator, custodian or similar official under any Bankruptcy Law.
Custodian
 
"" means, for each Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period and each $1,000 principal amount of Securities surrendered for conversion, a number of shares of Common Stock (but in no event less than zero) determined by the following formula:
Daily Share Amounts
 
 
"" means, when used with respect to the Securities, any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means, with respect to any Global Securities, a clearing agency that is registered as such under the Exchange Act and is designated by the Company to act as Depositary for such Global Securities (or any successor securities clearing agency so registered), which shall initially be DTC.
Depositary
 
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 12.4(c).
Distributed Property
 
"" means The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation.
DTC
 
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 12.1(f).
Effective Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
Event of Default
 
"" means, (a) with respect to Section 12.1, the first date upon which a sale of the Common Stock does not automatically transfer the right to receive the relevant dividend from the seller of the Common Stock to its buyer, and (b) in all other cases, with respect to any issuance or distribution on the Common Stock or any other equity security, the first date on which the shares of Common Stock or such other equity security trade on the applicable exchange or in the applicable market, regular way, without the right to receive such issuance or distribution.
Ex-Dividend Date
 
"" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means any transaction or event (whether by means of an exchange offer, liquidation, tender offer, consolidation, merger, combination, reclassification, recapitalization or otherwise) in connection with which more than 50% of the Common Stock is exchanged for, converted into, acquired for or constitutes solely the right to receive, consideration which is not at least 90% common stock (or American Depositary Shares representing shares of common stock) that is: (a) listed on, or immediately after such transaction or event, will be listed on, a United States national securities exchange or (b) approved, or immediately after such transaction or event will be approved, for quotation on the Nasdaq National Market or any similar United States system of automated dissemination of quotations of securities prices.
Fundamental Change
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(b).
Fundamental Change Company Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(a).
Fundamental Change Repurchase Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(c).
Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1(a).
Fundamental Change Repurchase Price
"" means Securities that are in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A and that include the information called for by footnotes 1 and 3 thereof and that are deposited with the Depositary or its custodian and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee.
Global Securities
 
"" or "" means a person in whose name a Security is registered on the Registrar's books.
Holder
Securityholder
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.14.
Indebtedness
 
"" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms hereof, including the provisions of the TIA that are explicitly incorporated in this Indenture by reference to the TIA.
Indenture
 
"" means Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities.
Initial Purchasers
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Securities.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" of any Security means the date on which such Security was originally issued or deemed issued as set forth on the face of the Security.
Issue Date
 
"" means, with respect to the Common Stock or any other security for which a Last Reported Sale Price must be determined, on any date, the closing sale price per share of the Common Stock or unit of such other security (or, if no closing sale price is reported, the average of the last bid and last ask prices or, if more than one in either case, the average of the average last bid and the average last ask prices) on such date as reported in composite transactions for the principal U.S. securities exchange on which the Common Stock or such other security is traded or, if the Common Stock or such other security is not listed on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, as reported by the Nasdaq National Market. If the Common Stock or such other security is not listed for trading on a United States national or regional securities exchange and not reported by the Nasdaq National Market on the relevant date, the Last Reported Sale Price shall be the last quoted bid price per share of Common Stock or such other security in the over-the-counter market on the relevant date, as reported by the National Quotation Bureau or similar organization. In absence of such quotation, the Last Reported Sale Price shall be the average of the mid-point of the last bid and ask prices for the Common Stock or such other security on the relevant date from each of at least three nationally recognized independent investment banking firms selected from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company for that purpose. The Last Reported Sale Price shall be determined without reference to extended or after hours trading.
Last Reported Sale Price
 
"" means any day other than a Business Day.
Legal Holiday
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement. All references herein or in the Securities to interest accrued or payable as of any date shall include any Liquidated Damages Amount accrued or payable as of such date as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Liquidated Damages Amount
 
"" means the occurrence or existence for more than a one-half hour period in the aggregate on any scheduled Trading Day for the Common Stock or other applicable security of any suspension or limitation imposed on trading (by reason of movements in price exceeding limits permitted by the stock exchange or otherwise) in the Common Stock or other applicable security or in any options, contracts or future contracts relating to the Common Stock or other applicable security, and such suspension or limitation occurs or exists at any time before 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such day.
Market Disruption Event
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 12.1(a).
Measurement Period
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 12.6.
Merger Event
"" means indebtedness the terms of which provide that the lender's claim for repayment of such indebtedness is limited solely to a claim against the property which secures such indebtedness.
Non-Recourse Indebtedness
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 12.2(c).
Notice of Conversion
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
Notice of Default
 
"" means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary, any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officer
 
"" means a written certificate containing the information specified in Sections 13.4 and 13.5, signed in the name of the Company by any two Officers, at least one of whom is the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, an Executive Vice President or a Senior Vice President and delivered to the Trustee. An Officers' Certificate given pursuant to Section 6.3 shall be signed by the principal financial or accounting Officer of the Company and one other Officer.
Officers' Certificate
 
"" means a written opinion containing the information specified in Sections 13.4 and 13.5, from legal counsel. The counsel may be an employee of, or counsel to, the Company.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" shall mean the date of closing of, if any, pursuant to the option granted by the Company to the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement to purchase up to $75 Million aggregate principal amount of Securities, which shall be on or before the 30th day following the Closing Date.
Option Closing Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.8.
Outstanding Securities
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.
Paying Agent
 
"" or "" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
person
 
"" means the principal corporate trust office of the Trustee which office at the date of execution of this Indenture is 25 Park Place, N.E., 24th Floor, Atlanta, GA 30303 or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company.
Principal Corporate Trust Office
 
"" means the Purchase Agreement dated as of May 23, 2006, among the Company and the Initial Purchasers.
Purchase Agreement
 
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
 
"" means, when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, the date fixed for redemption pursuant to this Indenture.
Redemption Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.
Redemption Price
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.6(a).
Reference Property
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.
Registrar
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 26, 2006, between the Company and the Initial Purchasers.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Securities.
Regular Record Date
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.2(a).
Remaining Shares
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a).
Repurchase Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(c).
Repurchase Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a).
Repurchase Price
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 12.2(a).
Required Cash Amount
 
"" means, when used with respect to the Trustee, any officer within the corporate trust department of the Trustee, including any vice president, assistant vice president or assistant treasurer or any other officer of the Trustee who customarily performs functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of such person's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means a Certificated Security which is a Transfer Restricted Security.
Restricted Certificated Security
 
"" means a Global Security that is a Transfer Restricted Security.
Restricted Global Security
 
"" means that certain Rights Agreement dated as of May 1, 1995 between the Company and First Chicago Trust Company of New York, as rights agent, as amended from time to time.
Rights Plan
 
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act (or any successor provision), as it may be amended from time to time.
Rule 144A
 
"" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" or "" means any of the Company's 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026, as amended or supplemented from time to time, issued under this Indenture.
Security
Securities
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X (17 C.F.R. 210).
Significant Subsidiary
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Securities.
Special Record Date
 
" has the meaning specified in Section 12.4(c).
Spin-Off"
 
"", when used with respect to any Security, means June 15, 2026.
Stated Maturity
 
"" means the price paid per share of Common Stock in connection with a Fundamental Change pursuant to which Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 12.1(d) hereof, which shall be equal to (i) if holders of Common Stock receive only cash in such Fundamental Change, the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock and (ii) in all other cases, the average of the Last Reported Sale Prices of the Common Stock over the five consecutive Trading Day period ending on the Trading Day preceding the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change.
Stock Price
 
"" means any Person of which at least a majority of the outstanding voting stock shall at the time directly or indirectly be owned by the Company or by one or more Subsidiaries thereof or by the Company and one or more Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
 
"" means the United States Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in effect on the date of this Indenture, provided, however, that in the event the TIA is amended after such date, TIA means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the TIA as so amended.
TIA
"" means any day on which (i) there is no Market Disruption Event and (ii) the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Stock or other applicable security is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock or other applicable security is listed, in open for trading or, if the Common Stock or other applicable security is not so listed, admitted for trading or quoted, any Business Day. A Trading Day only includes those days that have a scheduled closing time of 4:00 p.m. (New York City time) or the then standard closing time for regular trading on the relevant exchange or trading system.
Trading Day
 
"" with respect to the Securities, on any date of determination, means the average of the secondary market bid quotations obtained by the Trustee for $2.0 million principal amount of Securities at approximately 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on such determination date from three independent nationally recognized securities dealers selected by the Company; that if three such bids cannot reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, but two such bids are obtained, then the average of the two bids shall be used, and if only one such bid can reasonably be obtained by the Trustee, that one bid shall be used. If the Trustee cannot reasonably obtain at least one bid for $2.0 million principal amount of Securities from a nationally recognized securities dealer, then the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Securities will be deemed to be less than 97% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock and the Conversion Rate.
Trading Price
provided
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.12(f).
Transfer Certificate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.12(f).
Transfer Restricted Security
 
"" shall have the meaning specified in Section 12.4.
Trigger Event
 
"" means the party named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor replaces it pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture and, thereafter, shall mean such successor. The foregoing sentence shall likewise apply to any subsequent such successor or successors.
Trustee
 
"" means a Certificated Security that is not a Transfer Restricted Security.
Unrestricted Certificated Security
 
"" means a Global Security that is not a Transfer Restricted Security.
Unrestricted Global Security
 
"" on any Trading Day means the price per share of the Common Stock as displayed on Bloomberg (or any successor service) page CAM <equity> VAP in respect of the period from 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. (New York City time), on such Trading Day; or, if such price is not available, the market value per share of the Common Stock on such day as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained for this purpose by the Company.
Volume Weighted Average Price
 
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
Section 1.2
                       
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
"" means the SEC.
Commission
 
"" means the Securities.
indenture securities
 
"" means a Securityholder.
indenture security holder
 
"" means this Indenture.
indenture to be qualified
 
"" or "" means the Trustee.
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
 
"" on the indenture securities means the Company.
obligor
All other TIA terms used but not defined in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by SEC rule have the meanings assigned to them by such definitions.
 
Rules of Construction.
Section 1.3
                       
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
a term has the meaning assigned to it;
(a)
                                 
 
an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States as in effect from time to time;
(b)
                                
 
"or" is not exclusive;
(c)
                                 
 
"including" means including, without limitation;
(d)
                                
 
words in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural include the singular; and
(e)
                                 
 
"all" includes "any" and "any" includes "all."
(f)
                                   
 
Acts of Holders.
Section 1.4
                       
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by an agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company, as described in Section 13.2. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the of Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section.
(a)
                                 
"Act"
 
The fact and date of the execution by any person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to such officer the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than such signer's individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of such signer's authority, if it so states. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(b)
                                
 
The principal amount and serial number of any Security and the ownership of Securities shall be proved by the register maintained by the Registrar.
(c)
                                 
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
(d)
                                
 
If the Company shall solicit from the Holders any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no
(e)
                                 
obligation to do so. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the record date.
provided
 
 
Form and Dating.
Section 2.1
                       
 
The Securities and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto, which is a part of this Indenture. The Securities may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage (provided that any such notation, legend or endorsement required by usage is in a form acceptable to the Company). The Company shall provide any such notations, legends or endorsements to the Trustee in writing. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
 
Restricted Global Securities. All of the Securities issued on the Closing Date and the Option Closing Date are being offered and sold to QIBs in reliance on Rule 144A and shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Restricted Global Securities, which shall be deposited with the Trustee at its Principal Corporate Trust Office, as custodian for the Depositary and registered in the name of DTC or the nominee thereof, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as hereinafter provided. The aggregate principal amount of the Restricted Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary as hereinafter provided.
(a)
                                 
 
Global Securities in General. Each Global Security shall represent such of the outstanding Securities as shall be specified therein and each shall provide that it shall initially represent the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities stated thereon, but that the aggregate amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges, redemptions, repurchases and conversions of such Securities and the issuance of Additional Securities.
(b)
                                
 
Any adjustment of the aggregate principal amount of a Global Security to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the amount of outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.12 and shall be made on the records of the Trustee and the Depositary.
 
Neither any members of, or participants in, the Depositary (collectively, the ) nor any other persons on whose behalf Agent Members may act shall have any rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security registered in the name of the Depositary or any nominee thereof, or under any such Global Security, and the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner and Holder of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained herein shall (A) prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or such nominee, as the case may be, or (B) impair, as between the Depositary, its Agent Members and any other person on whose behalf an Agent Member may act, the operation of customary practices of such Persons governing the exercise of the rights of a Holder of any Security.
"Agent Members"
 
Certificated Securities. Certificated Securities will be issued only under the limited circumstances provided in Section 2.12(a)(i).
(c)
                                 
Execution and Authentication.
Section 2.2
                       
 
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by any Officer. The signature of the Officer on the Securities may be manual or facsimile.
 
A Security bearing the manual or facsimile signature of an individual who was at the time of the execution of the Security an Officer shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individual has ceased to hold such office(s) prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such office(s) at the date of authentication of such Securities.
 
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
 
The amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture shall be unlimited. The Trustee initially shall authenticate and deliver the Securities for original issue in an aggregate principal amount of up to $575,000,000 (which amount includes Securities issued upon exercise of the Initial Purchasers' option provided for in the Purchase Agreement) upon one or more Company Orders without any further action by the Company (other than as contemplated in Section 13.4 and Section 13.5). At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Additional Securities executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication. Except as otherwise provided in this Article II, the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and make available for delivery said Securities to or upon Company Order. In authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall receive and shall be fully protected in relying upon:
 
in the case of the Securities to be authenticated and delivered on the Closing Date and the Option Closing Date, a copy of the Board Resolution in or pursuant to which the terms and form of the Securities were established, the issuance and sale of the Securities was authorized, this Indenture was authorized and specified Officers were authorized to establish the form and determine the terms of the Securities and the form of this Indenture, to execute the Securities and this Indenture on behalf of the Company and to take any other necessary actions relating thereto and evidence of any actions taken by authorized Officers pursuant to that Board Resolution, each certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors or taken by any authorized Officer and to be in full force and effect as of the date of such certificate;
(a)
                                 
 
in the case of Additional Securities, a copy of the Board Resolution in or pursuant to which the issuance and sale of such Additional Securities was authorized and specified Officers were authorized to execute the Additional Securities on behalf of the Company and to take any other necessary actions relating thereto and evidence of any actions taken by authorized Officers pursuant to that Board Resolution, each certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors or taken by any authorized Officer and to be in full force and effect as of the date of such certificate;
(b)
                                
 
an Officers' Certificate delivered in accordance with Sections 13.4 and 13.5; and
(c)
                                 
 
an Opinion of Counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee.
(d)
                                
 
The Trustee shall act as the initial authenticating agent. Thereafter, the Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Company to authenticate Securities. An authenticating agent may authenticate Securities whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent.
The Securities shall be issued only in registered form without coupons and only in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and any multiple of $1,000.
 
Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent.
Section 2.3
                       
 
The Company shall maintain an office or agency where Securities may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange (""), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for redemption, repurchase or payment (""), an office or agency where Securities may be presented for conversion ("") and an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. Pursuant to Section 6.5, the Company will at all times maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent, and Conversion Agent and an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served in the Borough of Manhattan, New York City. The Registrar shall keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange.
Registrar
Paying Agent
Conversion Agent
 
The Company may have one or more co-registrars, one or more additional paying agents, and one or more additional conversion agents. The term Paying Agent includes any additional paying agent, including any named pursuant to Section 6.5. The term Conversion Agent includes any additional conversion agent, including any named pursuant to Section 6.5. The term Registrar includes co-registrars.
 
The Company shall enter into an appropriate limited agency agreement with any Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar (in each case, if such Person is a Person other than the Trustee). The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such agent. The Company shall notify the Trustee of the name and address of any such agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, the Trustee shall act as such and shall be entitled to appropriate compensation therefor pursuant to Section 9.7. The Company or any Subsidiary or an Affiliate of either of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
 
The Company hereby initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent in connection with the Securities.
 
Paying Agent to Hold Cash and Securities in Trust.
Section 2.4
                       
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on each due date of payments in respect of, or delivery of cash or Common Stock or Reference Property, or any combination thereof, upon conversion of, any Security, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date) or with the Conversion Agent cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on the due date), and/or such number of shares of Common Stock and/or Reference Property in each case sufficient to make such payments or deliveries when so becoming due. The Company shall require each Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, as applicable (other than the Trustee), to agree in writing that such Paying Agent or Conversion Agent shall hold in trust for the benefit of Securityholders or the Trustee all cash, Common Stock and Reference Property, as applicable, held by such Paying Agent or Conversion Agent for the making of payments or deliveries in respect of the Securities and shall notify the Trustee of any default by the Company in making any such payment or delivery. If the Company, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any of them acts as Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, as applicable, it shall segregate the money, Common Stock and Reference Property, as applicable, held by it as Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, as applicable, and hold it as a separate trust fund.
 
The Company at any time may require a Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, as applicable, to pay all cash, Common Stock and Reference Property, as applicable, held by it to the Trustee, and to account for any funds and Common Stock or Reference Property, as applicable, disbursed by it, and the Trustee may at any time during the continuance of any default, upon the written request to the Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, as applicable, require such Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, as applicable, to forthwith pay to the Trustee all cash, Common Stock and Reference Property, as applicable, so held in trust. Upon doing so, the Paying Agent or Conversion Agent, as applicable, shall have no further liability for such cash, Common Stock or Reference Property, as applicable.
Securityholder Lists.
Section 2.5
                       
 
The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Securityholders. If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall cause to be furnished to the Trustee on or before each semiannual interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of Securityholders.
 
Transfer and Exchange.
Section 2.6
                       
 
Subject to compliance with any applicable additional requirements contained in Section 2.12, when a Security is presented to the Registrar with a request to register a transfer thereof or to exchange such Security for an equal principal amount of Securities of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested; , that every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by an assignment form and, if applicable, a transfer certificate, each in the form included in Exhibit A attached hereto and in form satisfactory to the Registrar and each duly executed by the Holder thereof or its attorney duly authorized in writing. To permit registration of transfers and exchanges, upon surrender of any Security for registration of transfer or exchange at an office or agency maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.3, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate Securities of a like aggregate principal amount at the Registrar's request. Any transfer or exchange shall be without charge, except that the Company or the Registrar may require payment of a sum sufficient to pay all taxes, assessments or other governmental charges that may be imposed in connection with the transfer or exchange of the Securities from the Securityholder requesting such transfer or exchange.
(a)
                                 
provided, however
 
Neither the Company, the Registrar nor the Trustee shall be required to exchange or register a transfer of (i) any Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of Securities to be redeemed in part, the portion thereof not to be redeemed), (ii) any Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn by the Holder thereof in accordance with the terms of this Indenture (except, in the case of Securities to be repurchased in part, the portion thereof not to be repurchased), (iii) any Securities surrendered for conversion (except, in the case of Securities to be converted in part, the portion thereof not converted), or (iv) any Securities for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed.
 
All Securities issued upon any transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
 
Any Registrar appointed pursuant to Section 2.3 shall provide to the Trustee such information as the Trustee may reasonably require in connection with the delivery by such Registrar of Securities upon transfer or exchange of Securities.
(b)
                                
 
Each Holder of a Security agrees to indemnify the Company, the Registrar and the Trustee against any liability that may result from the transfer, exchange or assignment of such Holder's Security in violation of any provision of this Indenture and/or applicable United States federal or state securities law.
(c)
                                 
 
The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer imposed under this Indenture or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any Security (including any transfers between or among Agent Members or other beneficial owners of interests in any Global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so only if and when expressly required by the terms of, this Indenture, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements hereof.
Replacement Securities.
Section 2.7
                       
 
If (a) any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Company, the Registrar or the Trustee, or (b) the Company, the Registrar and the Trustee receive evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security, and there is delivered to the Company, the Registrar and the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company, the Registrar or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide or protected purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for any such mutilated Security or in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of like tenor and principal amount, bearing a certificate number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, or is about to be redeemed by the Company pursuant to Article III or repurchased by the Company pursuant to Article IV or V, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay, redeem or repurchase such Security, as the case may be to the Holder of record.
 
Upon the issuance of any new Securities under this Section 2.7, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax, assessment or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee or the Registrar) connected therewith.
 
Every new Security issued pursuant to this Section 2.7 in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
 
The provisions of this Section 2.7 are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
Outstanding Securities; Determinations of Holders' Action.
Section 2.8
                       
 
Securities outstanding at any time are all the Securities authenticated by the Trustee, except for those cancelled by it, those paid, redeemed or repurchased pursuant to Section 2.7, those delivered to it for cancellation and those described in this Section 2.8 as not outstanding.
 
A Security does not cease to be outstanding because the Company or an Affiliate thereof holds the Security; , that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of Securities have given or concurred in any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, or other Act hereunder, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Subject to the foregoing, only Securities outstanding at the time of such determination shall be considered in any such determination and are referred to herein as "."
provided, however
Outstanding Securities
 
If a Security is replaced pursuant to Section 2.7, the replaced Security ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Security is held by a bona fide or protected purchaser unaware that such Security has been replaced.
 
If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms of this Indenture, prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Stated Maturity or a Redemption Date or on the Business Day immediately following a Repurchase Date or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, cash or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay Securities payable, then immediately after such Stated Maturity, Redemption Date, Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, such Securities shall cease to be outstanding and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on such Securities shall cease to accrue.
If a Security is converted in accordance with Article XII, then from and after the time of conversion on the date of conversion, such Security shall cease to be outstanding and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on such Security shall cease to accrue.
 
Temporary Securities.
Section 2.9
                       
 
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
If temporary Securities are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities, the temporary Securities shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities upon surrender of the temporary Securities at the office or agency of the Company designated for such purpose pursuant to Section 2.3, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities.
 
Cancellation.
Section 2.10
                 
 
All Securities surrendered for payment, repurchase by the Company pursuant to Articles IV or V, conversion, redemption or registration of transfer or exchange shall, if surrendered to any person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedure.
 
Persons Deemed Owners.
Section 2.11
                 
 
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment (whether in cash, Common Stock or Reference Property) of principal of, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on, the Security, for the purpose of receiving cash, Common Stock or Reference Property upon conversion and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security is overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Notwithstanding anything else herein contained, neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility or obligation with respect to (a) the accuracy of the records of any Depositary or any other person with respect to any ownership interest in the Global Securities, (b) the delivery to any person, other than a Holder, of any notice with respect to the Global Securities, including any notice of redemption or refunding, (c) the selection of the particular portions of Global Securities to be redeemed or refunded in the event of a partial redemption or refunding of part of the Outstanding Securities or (d) the payment to any person, other than a Holder, of any amount with respect to (i) the principal of, redemption premium, if any, or interest on the Global Securities, (ii) any Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, or (iii) any Liquidated Damages Amount.
 
Additional Transfer and Exchange Requirements.
Section 2.12
                 
 
Transfer and Exchange of Global Securities.
(a)
                                 
 
Certificated Securities shall be issued in exchange for interests in the Global
(i)
                                    
Securities only if (y) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Global Securities or if it at any time ceases to be a "clearing agency" registered under the Exchange Act, if so required by applicable law or regulation and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, or (z) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Depositary notifies the Trustee of its decision to exchange the Global Securities for Certificated Securities. In any such case, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of a Company Order (which the Company agrees to deliver promptly), authenticate and deliver Certificated Securities in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such Global Securities in exchange therefor. Only Restricted Certificated Securities shall be issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Restricted Global Securities, and only Unrestricted Certificated Securities shall be issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Unrestricted Global Securities. Certificated Securities issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Global Securities shall be registered in such names and shall be in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee in writing. The Trustee shall deliver or cause to be delivered such Certificated Securities to the Persons in whose name such Securities are so registered. Such exchange shall be effected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture other than the provisions set forth in Section 2.12(a)(i), a Global Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary.
(ii)
                                 
 
Transfer and Exchange of Certificated Securities. In the event that Certificated Securities are issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Global Securities in accordance with Section 2.12(a)(i), and, on or after such event, Certificated Securities are presented by a Holder to the Registrar with a request:
(b)
                                
 
to register the transfer of the Certificated Securities to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of Certificated Securities only; or
(x)
                                  
 
to exchange such Certificated Securities for an equal principal amount of Certificated Securities of other authorized denominations,
(y)
                                
 
such Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested; provided, however, that the Certificated Securities presented or surrendered for register of transfer or exchange:
 
shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in accordance with the proviso to the first paragraph of Section 2.6; and
(i)
                                    
 
in the case of a Restricted Certificated Security, such request shall be accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable:
(ii)
                                 
 
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being delivered to the Registrar by a Holder for registration in the name of such Holder, without transfer, or such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate);
(A)
                             
 
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to a person the Holder reasonably believes is a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, or pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or in compliance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate);
(B)
                               
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being issued to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act), a certificate to that effect from the Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) and a signed letter containing certain representations and agreements relating to the restrictions on transfer of the Securities in the form obtained from the Company;
(C)
                               
 
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from the Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) and if the Company or the Registrar so requests, a customary Opinion of Counsel, and such certificates and other information reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Registrar to the effect that such transfer does not require registration under the Securities Act.
(D)
                              
 
Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in a Restricted Global Security for a Beneficial Interest in an Unrestricted Global Security. Any person having a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security may upon request, subject to the Applicable Procedures, transfer such beneficial interest to a person who is required or permitted to take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Global Security. Upon receipt by the Trustee of written instructions, or such other form of instructions as is customary for the Depositary, from the Depositary or its nominee on behalf of any person having a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security and the following additional information and documents in such form as is customary for the Depositary from the Depositary or its nominee on behalf of the person having such beneficial interest in the Restricted Global Security (all of which may be submitted by facsimile or electronically):
(c)
                                 
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect from the Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
(i)
                                    
 
if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certification to that effect from the Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) and, if the Company or the Trustee so requests, a customary Opinion of Counsel, and such certificates and other information reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Registrar to the effect that such transfer does not require registration under the Securities Act,
(ii)
                                 
 
the Registrar shall reduce or cause to be reduced the aggregate principal amount of the Restricted Global Security by the appropriate principal amount and shall increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Security by a like principal amount. Such transfer shall otherwise be effected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures. If no Unrestricted Global Security is then outstanding, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of a Company Order (which the Company agrees to deliver promptly), authenticate and deliver an Unrestricted Global Security.
 
Transfer of a Beneficial Interest in an Unrestricted Global Security for a Beneficial Interest in a Restricted Global Security. Any person having a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security may upon request, subject to the Applicable Procedures, transfer such beneficial interest to a person who is required or permitted to take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Global Security. Upon receipt by the Trustee of written instructions, or such other form of instructions as is customary for the Depositary, from the Depository or its nominee on behalf of any person having a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security and the following additional information and documents in such form as is customary for the Depositary, from the Depositary or its nominee on behalf of the person having such beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Security (all of which may be submitted by facsimile or electronically):
(d)
                                
 
a certification from the Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer
(i)
                                    
Certificate) to the effect that such beneficial interest is being transferred to a person that the transferor reasonably believes is a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A; or
 
a certification from the Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) to the effect that such beneficial interest is being transferred in compliance with Rule 904 under the Act; or
(ii)
                                 
 
a certification from the Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) to the effect that such beneficial interest is being transferred to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(l), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act) and a signed letter containing certain representations and agreements relating to the restrictions on transfer of the Securities in the form obtained from the Company.
(iii)
                              
 
The Registrar shall reduce or cause to be reduced the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Security by the appropriate principal amount and shall increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Restricted Global Security by a like principal amount. Such transfer shall otherwise be effected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures. If no Restricted Global Security is then outstanding, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of a Company Order (which the Company agrees to deliver promptly), authenticate and deliver a Restricted Global Security.
 
Transfers of Certificated Securities for Beneficial Interest in Global Securities. In the event that Certificated Securities are issued in exchange for beneficial interests in Global Securities and, thereafter, the events or conditions specified in Section 2.12(a)(i) which required such exchange shall cease to exist, the Company shall mail notice to the Trustee and to the Holders stating that Holders may exchange Certificated Securities or interests in Global Securities by complying with the procedures set forth in this Indenture and briefly describing such procedures and the events or circumstances requiring that such notice be given. Thereafter, if Certificated Securities are presented by a Holder to a Registrar with a request:
(e)
                                 
 
to register the transfer of such Certificated Securities to a person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Global Security, which request shall specify whether such Global Security will be a Restricted Global Security or an Unrestricted Global Security, or
(x)
                                  
 
to exchange such Certificated Securities for an equal principal amount of beneficial interests in a Global Security, which beneficial interests will be owned by the Holder transferring such Certificated Securities (provided that in the case of such an exchange, Restricted Certificated Securities may be exchanged only for Restricted Global Securities and Unrestricted Certificated Securities may be exchanged only for Unrestricted Global Securities), the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested by canceling such Certificated Security and causing the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Security to be increased accordingly and, if no such Global Security is then outstanding, the Company shall issue and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of a Company Order (which the Company agrees to deliver promptly) authenticate and deliver a new Global Security;
(y)
                                
 
, that the Certificated Securities presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange:
provided, however
 
shall be duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in accordance with the proviso to Section 2.6(a);
(i)
                                    
 
in the case of a Restricted Certificated Security to be transferred for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, such request shall be accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable:
(ii)
                                 
 
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a certification to that effect
(A)
                             
from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
 
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) and, if the Company or the Registrar so requests, a customary Opinion of Counsel, and such certificates and other information reasonably acceptable to the Company and the Registrar to the effect that such transfer does not require registration under of the Securities Act;
(B)
                               
 
in the case of a Restricted Certificated Security to be transferred or exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, such request shall be accompanied by the following information and documents, as applicable:
(iii)
                              
 
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to a person the Holder reasonably believes is a QIB (which, in the case of an exchange, shall be such Holder) in accordance with Rule 144A, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
(A)
                             
 
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred in compliance with Rule 904 under the Act, certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
(B)
                               
 
if such Restricted Certificated Security is being transferred to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(l), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act), certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) and a signed letter containing certain representations and agreements relating to the restrictions on transfer of the Securities in the form obtained from the Company;
(C)
                               
 
in the case of an Unrestricted Certificated Security to be transferred or exchanged for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, such request need not be accompanied by any additional information or documents; and
(iv)
                             
 
in the case of an Unrestricted Certificated Security to be transferred or exchanged for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, such request shall be accompanied by the following additional information and documents, as applicable:
(v)
                                
 
if such Unrestricted Certificated Security is being transferred to a person the Holder reasonably believes is a QIB (which, in the case of an exchange, shall be such Holder) in accordance with Rule 144A, a certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
(A)
                             
 
if such Unrestricted Certificated Security is being transferred in compliance with Rule 904 under the Act, certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate); or
(B)
                               
 
if such Unrestricted Certificated Security is being transferred to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (2), (3) or (7) under the Securities Act), certification to that effect from such Holder (in substantially the form set forth in the Transfer Certificate) and a signed letter containing certain representations and agreements relating to the restrictions on transfer of the Securities in the form obtained from the Company;
(C)
                               
Legends.
(f)
                                   
 
Except as permitted by the following paragraphs (ii), (iii) and (iv), each Global Security and Certificated Security (and all Securities issued in exchange therefor or upon registration of transfer or replacement thereof) shall bear a legend in substantially the form called for by footnote 2 to Exhibit A attached hereto (each a ""), for so long as it is required by this Indenture to bear such legend. Each Transfer Restricted Security shall have attached thereto a certificate (a "") in substantially the form called for by footnote 6 to Exhibit A attached hereto.
(i)
                                    
Transfer Restricted Security
Transfer Certificate
 
Upon any sale or transfer of a Transfer Restricted Security (x) after the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales of the Securities under Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act, (y) pursuant to Rule 144 or (z) pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act:
(ii)
                                 
 
in the case of any Restricted Certificated Security, any Registrar shall permit the Holder thereof to exchange such Restricted Certificated Security for an Unrestricted Certificated Security, or (under the circumstances described in Section 2.12(e)) to transfer such Restricted Certificated Security to a transferee who shall take such Security in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security, and in each case shall rescind any restriction on the transfer of such Security; , that the Holder of such Restricted Certificated Security shall, in connection with such exchange or transfer, comply with the other applicable provisions of this Section 2.12; and
(A)
                             
provided, however
 
in the case of any beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Security, the Trustee shall permit the beneficial owner thereof to transfer such beneficial interest to a transferee who shall take such interest in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Security and shall rescind any restriction on transfer of such beneficial interest; , that such Unrestricted Global Security shall continue to be subject to the provisions of Section 2.12(a)(ii); and provided, further, that the owner of such beneficial interest shall, in connection with such transfer, comply with the other applicable provisions of this Section 2.12.
(B)
                               
provided, however
 
Upon the exchange, registration of transfer or replacement of Securities not bearing the legend described in paragraph (i) above, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, Securities that do not bear such legend and that do not have a Transfer Certificate attached thereto.
(iii)
                              
 
After the expiration of the holding period pursuant to Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act, the Company may with the consent of the Holder of a Restricted Global Security or a Restricted Certificated Security, remove any restriction of transfer on such Security, and the Company shall execute, and, pursuant to and upon receipt of a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, Securities that do not bear such legend and that do not have a Transfer Certificate attached thereto.
(iv)
                             
 
Until the expiration of the holding period applicable to sales of the Securities under Rule 144(k) of the Securities Act or a transfer pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of the Securities shall bear the legend in substantially the form called for by Exhibit B attached hereto.
(v)
                                
 
Transfers to the Company. Nothing contained in this Indenture or in the Securities shall prohibit the sale or other transfer of any Securities (including beneficial interests in Global Securities) to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, which Securities shall thereupon be cancelled in accordance with Section 2.10.
(g)
                                
CUSIP Numbers.
Section 2.13
                 
 
The Company may issue the Securities with one or more "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; , that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the CUSIP numbers.
provided, however
 
Ranking.
Section 2.14
                 
 
The indebtedness of the Company arising under or in connection with this Indenture and every outstanding Security issued under this Indenture from time to time constitutes and will constitute a senior unsecured general obligation of the Company; and ranking equally with existing and future senior unsecured Indebtedness of the Company and ranking senior in right of payment to any future Indebtedness of the Company that is expressly made subordinate to the Securities by the terms of such Indebtedness.
 
For purposes of this Section 2.14 and Section 8.1 only, "" means, without duplication, the principal or face amount of:
Indebtedness
 
all obligations for borrowed money;
(a)
                                 
 
all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments;
(b)
                                
 
all obligations in respect of letters of credit or bankers acceptances or similar instruments (or reimbursement obligations with respect thereto);
(c)
                                 
 
all obligations to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business;
(d)
                                
 
all obligations as lessee which are capitalized in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; and
(e)
                                 
 
all Indebtedness of others guaranteed by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or for which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is legally responsible or liable (whether by agreement to purchase indebtedness of, or to supply funds or to invest in, others).
(f)
                                   
 
The Company's Right to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
Section 3.1
                       
 
Prior to June 20, 2011, the Securities will not be redeemable at the Company's option. Beginning on June 20, 2011, the Company, at its option, may redeem the Securities in accordance with this Article III for cash at any time as a whole, or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed plus any accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on those Securities to, but not including, the Redemption Date (the "").
Redemption Price
 
In the event that the Company elects to redeem the Securities on a date that is on or after any Regular Record Date but on or before the corresponding Interest Payment Date, the Company shall be required to pay any accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, to the same Holder to whom the Company pays the principal of such Security regardless of whether such Holder was the registered Holder on the Regular Record Date immediately preceding such Redemption Date and, if the Holder to whom the Company pays the
principal, interest and Liquidation Damages Amount, if any, was not the registered Holder on the Regular Record Date, such payment shall be in lieu of payment to the registered Holder on such Regular Record Date.
 
If the Company elects to redeem Securities, it shall notify the Trustee in writing of the Redemption Date, the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and the Redemption Price. The Company shall give this notice to the Trustee by a Company Order at least 35 days before the Redemption Date (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee).
 
Selection of Securities to Be Redeemed.
Section 3.2
                       
 
If fewer than all of the outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, unless the procedures of the Depositary provide otherwise, the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed by lot, on a pro rata basis or by any other method the Trustee considers fair and appropriate in its sole discretion. The Trustee shall make the selection within five Business Days after it receives the notice provided for in Section 3.1 from Outstanding Securities not previously called for redemption. In the case of Global Securities, the Securities to be redeemed shall be selected in accordance with the Applicable Procedures.
 
Securities and portions of Securities that the Trustee selects shall be in principal amounts of $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to Securities called for redemption also apply to portions of Securities called for redemption. The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of the Securities or portions of the Securities to be redeemed.
 
Securities and portions of Securities that are to be redeemed are convertible by the Holder until 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Redemption Date even if the Securities are not otherwise convertible at that time. If any Security selected for partial redemption is converted in part before termination of the conversion right with respect to the portion of the Security so selected, the converted portion of such Security shall be deemed (so far as may be) to be the portion selected for redemption. Securities which have been converted during a selection of Securities to be redeemed may be treated by the Trustee as outstanding for the purpose of such selection.
 
Notice of Redemption.
Section 3.3
                       
 
At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a Redemption Date, the Company shall mail a notice of redemption by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed.
 
The notice of redemption shall identify the Securities to be redeemed and shall state:
 
the Redemption Date;
(a)
                                 
 
the Redemption Price;
(b)
                                
 
the Conversion Rate;
(c)
                                 
 
the name and address of the Paying Agent and Conversion Agent;
(d)
                                
 
that Securities called for redemption may be converted at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day preceding the Redemption Date;
(e)
                                 
 
that Holders who want to convert their Securities must satisfy the requirements set forth in Article XII;
(f)
                                   
 
that Securities called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the Redemption Price;
(g)
                                
in the case of any Security redeemed in part, that the Holder of such Security will receive a new Security or Securities, of authorized denominations for the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed;
(h)
                                
 
if fewer than all of the outstanding Securities are to be redeemed, the certificate numbers, if any, and principal amounts of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
(i)
                                    
 
that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Redemption Price, interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on Securities called for redemption will cease to accrue on and after the Redemption Date;
(j)
                                    
 
the CUSIP number(s) of the Securities to be redeemed; and
(k)
                                 
 
any other information the Company determines to include at the discretion of the Company.
(l)
                                    
 
At the Company's written request, the Trustee shall give the notice of redemption in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; , that the Company makes such request at least five Business Days (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) prior to the date by which such notice of redemption must be given to Holders in accordance with this Section 3.3; and , that the text of the notice of redemption shall be prepared by the Company.
provided, however
provided, further
 
Effect of Notice of Redemption.
Section 3.4
                       
 
Once notice of redemption is given, Securities called for redemption become due and payable on the Redemption Date and at the Redemption Price, except for Securities which are converted in accordance with the terms of this Indenture. Upon surrender to the Paying Agent, such Securities shall be paid at the Redemption Price.
 
Deposit of Redemption Price.
Section 3.5
                       
 
Prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.4) an amount of cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on the Redemption Date) sufficient to pay the aggregate Redemption Price of all Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed as of such Redemption Date other than Securities or portions of Securities called for redemption which on or prior thereto have been delivered by the Company to the Trustee for cancellation or have been converted.
 
If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms hereof, at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Redemption Date, cash sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of any Securities for which notice of redemption is given, then, on such Redemption Date, such Securities will cease to be outstanding and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on such Securities will cease to accrue, whether or not such Securities are delivered to the Paying Agent, and the rights of the Holders in respect thereof shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Redemption Price upon delivery of such Securities).
 
Securities Redeemed in Part.
Section 3.6
                       
 
Any Certificated Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security surrendered.
Repayment to the Company.
Section 3.7
                       
 
To the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 3.5 exceeds the aggregate Redemption Price of the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is redeeming as of the Redemption Date, then, promptly after the Redemption Date, the Paying Agent shall return any such excess to the Company.
 
Optional Put.
Section 4.1
                       
 
Securities shall be repurchased by the Company, at the option of the Holder thereof, on June 15, 2011, June 15, 2016 and June 15, 2021 (each, a ""), at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, to, but not including, such Repurchase Date (the ""), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of the Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 4.1(c).
(a)
                                 
Repurchase Date
Repurchase Price
 
No later than 20 Business Days prior to each Repurchase Date, the Company shall mail a written notice of the repurchase right by first class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). The notice shall include a form of Repurchase Notice to be completed by the Holder and shall briefly state, as applicable:
(b)
                                
 
the date by which the Repurchase Notice must be delivered to the Paying Agent in order for a Holder to exercise the repurchase right;
(i)
                                    
 
the Repurchase Date;
(ii)
                                 
 
the Repurchase Price;
(iii)
                              
 
the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
(iv)
                             
 
the Conversion Rate and any adjustments thereto;
(v)
                                
 
that the Securities as to which a Repurchase Notice has been given may be converted if they are otherwise convertible pursuant to Article XII only if the Repurchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
(vi)
                             
 
that the Securities must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment;
(vii)
                          
 
that the Repurchase Price for any Security as to which a Repurchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn will be paid promptly following the later of the Repurchase Date and the time of surrender of such Security;
(viii)
                       
 
the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise its put right under this Section 4.1;
(ix)
                               
 
the conversion rights, if any, of the Securities;
(x)
                                  
 
the procedures for withdrawing a Repurchase Notice;
(xi)
                               
 
that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Repurchase Price, interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on Securities surrendered for repurchase by the Company will cease to accrue on and after the Repurchase Date; and
(xii)
                            
the CUSIP number(s) of the Securities.
(xiii)
                         
 
At the Company's written request, the Trustee shall give the notice of the repurchase right in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; , that the Company makes such request at least three Business Days (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) prior to the date by which such notice of repurchase right must be given to the Holder in accordance with this Section 4.1(b); and , that the text of the notice of repurchase right shall be prepared by the Company.
provided, however
provided, further
 
A Holder may exercise its right specified in Section 4.1(a) upon delivery of a written notice of repurchase (a ""), substantially in the form of Exhibit C hereto, to the Paying Agent at any time during the period beginning at 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date that is 25 Business Days immediately preceding the relevant Repurchase Date until 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the fifth Business Day immediately preceding such Repurchase Date, stating:
(c)
                                 
Repurchase Notice
 
the certificate number of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be repurchased if Certificated Securities have been issued;
(i)
                                    
 
the portion of the principal amount of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be repurchased, which portion must be in principal amounts of $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000; and
(ii)
                                 
 
that such Security shall be repurchased by the Company as of the Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and in this Indenture.
(iii)
                              
 
The delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent with, or at any time after delivery of, the Repurchase Notice (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Repurchase Price therefor; , that such Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 4.1 only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof in the related Repurchase Notice.
provided, however
 
The Company shall repurchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 4.1, a portion of a Security, so long as the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the repurchase of all of a Security also apply to the repurchase of such portion of such Security.
 
Any repurchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 4.1 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder promptly following the later of the Repurchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security.
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Repurchase Notice contemplated by this Section 4.1(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Repurchase Notice at any applicable time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Repurchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 4.3.
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Repurchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
 
There shall be no purchase of any Securities pursuant to this Article IV if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the holders of such Securities, of the required Repurchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series (other than a default in the payment of the Repurchase Price with respect to such Securities). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Securities held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series (other than a default in the payment of the Repurchase Price with respect to such Securities), in which case, upon such return, the Repurchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
Manner of Payment of Repurchase Price.
Section 4.2
                       
 
The Repurchase Price will be paid in cash.
 
Effect of Repurchase Notice.
Section 4.3
                       
 
Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Repurchase Notice specified in Section 4.1(c), the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Repurchase Notice was given shall (unless such Repurchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following paragraph) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Repurchase Price with respect to such Security. Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article XII on or after the date of the delivery of such Repurchase Notice unless such Repurchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following paragraph.
 
A Repurchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Repurchase Notice at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Repurchase Date, specifying:
 
the certificate number, if any, of the Security in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted;
(a)
                                 
 
the principal amount of the Security with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted; and
(b)
                                
 
the principal amount, if any, of such Security which remains subject to the original Repurchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for repurchase by the Company.
(c)
                                 
 
Deposit of Repurchase Price.
Section 4.4
                       
 
Prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Repurchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.4) an amount of cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day) sufficient to pay the aggregate Repurchase Price of all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be repurchased on such Repurchase Date.
 
If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms hereof, at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Repurchase Date, cash sufficient to pay the Repurchase Price of all Securities for which a Repurchase Notice has been tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to Section 4.3, then, immediately after such Repurchase Date, such Securities will cease to be outstanding and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on such Securities will cease to accrue, whether or not such Securities are delivered to the Paying Agent, and the rights of the Holders in respect thereof shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Repurchase Price upon delivery of such Securities).
 
Securities Repurchased in Part.
Section 4.5
                       
 
Any Certificated Security which is to be repurchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Security so surrendered which is not repurchased.
Covenant to Comply With Securities Laws Upon Repurchase of Securities.
Section 4.6
                       
 
When complying with the provisions of Section 4.1 hereof (provided that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), and subject to any exemptions available under applicable law, the Company shall:
 
comply with Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act;
(a)
                                 
 
file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act; and
(b)
                                
 
otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under this Article IV to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified therein.
(c)
                                 
 
To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Article IV, the Company's compliance with such laws and regulations shall not in and of itself cause a breach of its obligations under this Article IV.
 
Repayment to the Company.
Section 4.7
                       
 
To the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 4.4 exceeds the aggregate Repurchase Price of the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to repurchase on the Repurchase Date, then, promptly after the Repurchase Date, the Paying Agent shall return any such excess to the Company.
 
Fundamental Change Put.
Section 5.1
                       
 
General. If a Fundamental Change occurs, any Securities not previously repurchased, redeemed or converted by the Company shall be repurchased by the Company at the option of the Holder thereof at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on those Securities to, but not including, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date (the ""), subject to satisfaction by or on behalf of any Holder of the requirements set forth in Section 5.1(c). The fundamental change repurchase date must be not less than 20 nor more than 35 Business Days after the date of the mailing of the Fundamental Change Company Notice under Section 5.1 (b) (the "").
(a)
                                 
Fundamental Change Repurchase Price
Fundamental Change Repurchase Date
 
Notice of Fundamental Change. No later than 20 days after the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, the Company shall mail a written notice of Fundamental Change (the "") by first class mail to the Trustee and to each Holder (and to beneficial owners as required by applicable law). Such mailing shall be by first class mail. Simultaneously with providing such Fundamental Change Company Notice, the Company shall publish a notice containing the information included therein once a newspaper of general circulation in The City of New York or publish such information on the Company's website or through such other public medium as the Company may use at such time. The notice shall briefly state, as applicable:
(b)
                                
Fundamental Change Company Notice
 
the events causing a Fundamental Change and the date of such Fundamental Change;
(i)
                                    
 
that the Holder has a right to require the Company to repurchase the Holder's
(ii)
                                 
Securities;
the date by which the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice must be delivered to the Paying Agent in order for a Holder to exercise the Fundamental Change repurchase right;
(iii)
                              
 
the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date;
(iv)
                             
 
the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price;
(v)
                                
 
the name and address of the Paying Agent and the Conversion Agent;
(vi)
                             
 
the applicable Conversion Rate and any adjustments to the applicable Conversion Rate;
(vii)
                          
 
that the Securities as to which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given may be converted if they are otherwise convertible pursuant to Article XII only if the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been withdrawn in accordance with the terms of this Indenture;
(viii)
                       
 
that the Securities must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect payment;
(ix)
                               
 
that the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price for any Security as to which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been duly given and not withdrawn will be paid promptly following the later of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date and the time of surrender of such Security;
(x)
                                  
 
the procedures the Holder must follow to exercise its Fundamental Change repurchase right under this Section 5.1;
(xi)
                               
 
the conversion rights, if any, of the Securities;
(xii)
                            
 
the procedures for withdrawing a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice;
(xiii)
                         
 
that, unless the Company defaults in making payment of such Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on Securities surrendered for repurchase by the Company will cease to accrue on and after the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date; and
(xiv)
                        
 
the CUSIP number(s) of the Securities.
(xv)
                           
 
At the Company's written request, the Trustee shall give the Fundamental Change Company Notice in the Company's name and at the Company's expense; , the Company makes such request at least five Business Days (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) prior to the date by which such Fundamental Change Company Notice must be given to the Holders in accordance with this Section 5.1(b); , that the text of the Fundamental Change Company Notice shall be prepared by the Company.
provided, however
provided, further
 
Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice. A Holder may exercise its right specified in Section 5.1(a) upon delivery of a written notice of repurchase (a ""), substantially in the form of Exhibit D hereto, to the Paying Agent at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, stating:
(c)
                                 
Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice
 
the certificate number of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be repurchased if Certificated Securities have been issued;
(i)
                                    
the portion of the principal amount of the Security which the Holder will deliver to be repurchased, which portion must be $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000; and
(ii)
                                 
 
that such Security shall be repurchased on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and in this Indenture.
(iii)
                              
 
The delivery of such Security to the Paying Agent with, or at any time after delivery of, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice (together with all necessary endorsements) at the offices of the Paying Agent shall be a condition to the receipt by the Holder of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price therefor; , that such Fundamental Change Repurchase Price shall be so paid pursuant to this Section 5.1 only if the Security so delivered to the Paying Agent shall conform in all respects to the description thereof set forth in the related Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice.
provided, however
 
The Company shall repurchase from the Holder thereof, pursuant to this Section 5.1, a portion of a Security, so long as the principal amount of such portion is $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000. Provisions of this Indenture that apply to the repurchase of all of a Security also apply to the repurchase of such portion of such Security.
 
Any repurchase by the Company contemplated pursuant to the provisions of this Section 5.1 shall be consummated by the delivery of the consideration to be received by the Holder promptly following the later of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date and the time of delivery of the Security.
 
Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any Holder delivering to the Paying Agent the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice contemplated by this Section 5.1(c) shall have the right to withdraw such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date by delivery of a written notice of withdrawal to the Paying Agent in accordance with Section 5.3.
 
The Paying Agent shall promptly notify the Company of the receipt by it of any Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice or written notice of withdrawal thereof.
 
There shall be no purchase of any Securities pursuant to this Article V if there has occurred (prior to, on or after, as the case may be, the giving, by the holders of such Securities, of the required Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice) and is continuing an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series (other than a default in the payment of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price with respect to such Securities). The Paying Agent will promptly return to the respective Holders thereof any Securities held by it during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series (other than a default in the payment of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price with respect to such Securities), in which case, upon such return, the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice with respect thereto shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
 
Manner of Payment of Fundamental Change Repurchase Price.
Section 5.2
                       
 
The Securities to be repurchased with respect to any Fundamental Change Repurchase Date pursuant to 5.1(a) will be paid in cash.
 
Effect of Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice.
Section 5.3
                       
 
Upon receipt by the Paying Agent of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice specified in Section 5.1(c), the Holder of the Security in respect of which such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice was given shall (unless such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice is withdrawn as specified in the following paragraph) thereafter be entitled to receive solely the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price with respect to such Security. Securities in respect of which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given by the Holder thereof may not be converted pursuant to Article XII on or after the date of the delivery of such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice unless such Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has first been validly withdrawn as specified in the following paragraph.
A Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice may be withdrawn by means of a written notice of withdrawal delivered to the office of the Paying Agent in accordance with the Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, specifying:
 
the principal amount of the Security with respect to which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted;
(a)
                                 
 
the certificate number, if any, of the Security in respect of which such notice of withdrawal is being submitted; and
(b)
                                
 
the principal amount, if any, of such Security which remains subject to the original Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice and which has been or will be delivered for repurchase by the Company.
(c)
                                 
 
Deposit of Fundamental Change Repurchase Price.
Section 5.4
                       
 
Prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, the Company shall deposit with the Paying Agent (or if the Company or a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any of them is acting as the Paying Agent, shall segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 2.4) an amount of cash (in immediately available funds if deposited on such Business Day), sufficient to pay the aggregate Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be repurchased on such Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
 
If the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with the terms hereof, at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the applicable Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, cash sufficient to pay the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of any Securities for which a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to Section 5.3, then, immediately after such Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, such Securities will cease to be outstanding and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on such Securities will cease to accrue, whether or not such Securities are delivered to the Paying Agent, and the rights of the Holders in respect thereof shall terminate (other than the right to receive the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price upon delivery of such Securities).
 
Securities Repurchased in Part.
Section 5.5
                       
 
Any Certificated Security which is to be repurchased only in part shall be surrendered at the office of the Paying Agent (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing) and the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without charge, a new Security or Securities, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder in an aggregate principal amount equal to, and in exchange for, the portion of the principal amount of the Security so surrendered which is not repurchased.
 
Covenant to Comply With Securities Laws Upon Repurchase of Securities.
Section 5.6
                       
 
When complying with the provisions of Section 5.1 hereof (provided that such offer or purchase constitutes an "issuer tender offer" for purposes of Rule 13e-4 (which term, as used herein, includes any successor provision thereto) under the Exchange Act at the time of such offer or purchase), and subject to any exemptions available under applicable law, the Company shall:
 
comply with Rule 13e-4 and Rule 14e-1 (or any successor provision) under the Exchange Act;
(a)
                                 
 
file the related Schedule TO (or any successor schedule, form or report) under the Exchange Act; and
(b)
                                
otherwise comply with all federal and state securities laws so as to permit the rights and obligations under this Article V to be exercised in the time and in the manner specified therein.
(c)
                                 
 
To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the provisions of this Article V, the Company's compliance with such laws and regulations shall not in and of itself cause a breach of its obligations under this Article V.
 
Repayment to the Company.
Section 5.7
                       
 
To the extent that the aggregate amount of cash deposited by the Company pursuant to Section 5.4 exceeds the aggregate Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of the Securities or portions thereof which the Company is obligated to repurchase as of the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date then, promptly after the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, the Paying Agent shall return any such excess to the Company.
 
Payment of Securities.
Section 6.1
                       
 
The Company shall promptly make all payments in respect of the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided in the Securities or pursuant to this Indenture. Principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price and Fundamental Change Repurchase Price and accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, shall be considered paid on the applicable date due if by 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date the Paying Agent holds, in accordance with this Indenture, cash or securities, if permitted hereunder, sufficient to pay all such amounts then due. The Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, pay interest on overdue principal and overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, at the rate borne by the Securities per annum. Except as otherwise specified, all references in this Indenture or the Securities to interest shall be deemed to include, without duplication, Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
Payment of the principal of and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on the Securities shall be in cash.
 
Except as provided in the immediately succeeding paragraph, the Company shall pay interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on the Securities to the Person in whose name the Securities are registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date next preceding the corresponding Interest Payment Date. Any such interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid (a) to the Person in whose name the Securities are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such defaulted interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof will be given to the Holders not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date or (b) at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange.
 
If a Security is redeemed pursuant to Article III hereof or the Holder elects to require the Company to repurchase such Security pursuant to either Article IV or Article V hereof on a date that is after the Regular Record Date and prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, accrued and unpaid on such Security to, but not including, the applicable Redemption Date, Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date will be paid to the same Holder to whom the Company pays the principal of such Security regardless of whether such Holder was the registered Holder on the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the applicable Redemption Date, Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
 
Holders must surrender the Securities to the Paying Agent to collect payment of principal. Payment of interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on Certificated Securities will be made by (i) check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address appears in the Register if such Securities have an aggregate
principal amount of $1 million or less or (ii) either by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address appears in the Register or by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account in the United States designated by such Person to the Registrar not later than the relevant record date if such Securities have an aggregate principal amount in excess of $1 million. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as the Securities are registered in the name of a Depositary or its nominee, all payments with respect to the Securities shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
 
SEC and Other Reports to the Trustee.
Section 6.2
                       
 
The Company shall ensure delivery to the Trustee within 15 days after it files such annual and quarterly reports, information, documents and other reports with the SEC, copies of its annual report and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the SEC may by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company is required to file with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act in accordance with TIA Section 314(a); , that delivery may be effected in accordance with the provisions of Rule 19a-1 under the TIA if and during any time the Company is eligible thereunder; , that the Company shall not be required to deliver to the Trustee any material for which the Company has sought and received confidential treatment by the SEC. In the event the Company is at any time no longer subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, it shall continue to provide the Trustee with annual and quarterly reports containing substantially the same information as would have been required to be filed with the SEC had the Company continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. In such event, such reports shall be provided at the times the Company would have been required to provide reports had it continued to have been subject to such reporting requirements. The Company also shall comply with the other provisions of TIA Section 314(a). Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
provided, however
and further provided, however
 
Compliance Certificate.
Section 6.3
                       
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (beginning with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006) a certificate executed by the principal executive officer, principal financial officer or principal accounting officer of the Company, stating whether or not to the knowledge of the signer thereof, the Company is in compliance with the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture and if the Company shall be in Default, specifying all such Defaults and the nature and status thereof of which they may have knowledge.
 
Further Instruments and Acts.
Section 6.4
                       
 
Upon reasonable request of the Trustee, or as otherwise necessary, the Company will execute and deliver such further instruments and do such further acts as may be reasonably necessary or proper to carry out more effectively the purposes of this Indenture.
 
Maintenance of Office or Agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent.
Section 6.5
                       
 
The Company will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency of the Trustee, Registrar, Paying Agent and Conversion Agent where Securities may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities may be surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, redemption, repurchase or conversion and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served. The Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee shall initially be such office or agency for all of the aforesaid purposes. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and of any change in the location, of any such office or agency (other than a change in the location of the office of the Trustee). If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the address of the Trustee set forth in Section 13.2.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, for such purposes.
provided
however
 
Delivery of Information Required Under Rule 144A.
Section 6.6
                       
 
At any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, upon the request of a Holder or any beneficial owner of Securities or holder or beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof, the Company will make available the information required pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act to such Holder or any beneficial owner of Securities or holder or beneficial owner of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such holder, as the case may be, to the extent required to permit compliance by such Holder or holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act in connection with the resale of any such security; , that the Company shall not be required to furnish such information in connection with any request made on or after the date which is two years from the later of the date such security was last acquired from the Company or an "affiliate" (as defined under Rule 144 under the Securities Act) of the Company. Whether a person is a beneficial owner shall be determined by the Company to the Company's reasonable satisfaction.
provided, however
 
Waiver of Stay, Extension or Usury Laws.
Section 6.7
                       
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law or any usury or other law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which would prohibit or forgive the Company from paying all or any portion of the principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price in respect of Securities, or any interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on such amounts, as contemplated herein, or which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
Statement by Officers as to Default.
Section 6.8
                       
 
The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, as soon as practicable and in any event within five Business Days after the Company becomes aware of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default or, an Officers' Certificate setting forth the details of such Default or Event of Default and the action which the Company proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
Liquidated Damages.
Section 6.9
                       
 
If at any time any Liquidated Damages Amount become payable by the Company pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the Company shall promptly deliver to the Trustee a certificate to that effect and stating (i) the total Liquidated Damages Amount that is payable and (ii) the date on which such Liquidated Damages Amount is payable pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement. Unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee receives such a certificate, the Trustee may assume without inquiry that no Liquidated Damages Amount is payable. If the Company has paid Liquidated Damages Amounts directly to the persons entitled to them, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee a certificate setting forth the particulars of such payment.
When Company May Merge or Transfer Assets.
Section 7.1
                       
 
The Company shall not consolidate with, merge with or into, or sell, assign, convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially in their entirety (computed with respect to the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) to any Person, unless:
 
either (i) the Company is the surviving entity or (ii) the successor or transferee (the "successor corporation") is a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the United States, any State thereof, or the District of Columbia, the Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, any of the Channel Islands, France, the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Norway, the Netherlands or the Netherlands Antilles and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, all of the obligations of the Company under the Securities and the Indenture;
(a)
                                 
 
immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or the passage of time, or both, would become an Event of Default under this Indenture shall exist;
(b)
                                
 
in the event that the Company or the surviving entity is organized in a jurisdiction other than the United States which is different from the jurisdiction in which the obligor on the Securities was organized immediately before giving effect to the transaction, (i) the Company or such surviving entity, as applicable, delivers to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (A) the obligations of the Company or the surviving entity, as applicable, are enforceable under the laws of the new jurisdiction of its formation subject to customary exceptions and (B) the Holders of Securities will not recognize any income, gain or loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a result of the transaction and will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the same amount and in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such transaction had not occurred, (ii) the Company or such surviving entity, as applicable, agrees in writing to submit to jurisdiction to the competent courts of the State of New York or the federal district court sitting in The City of New York and appoints an agent in the State of New York for the service of process, each under terms satisfactory to the Trustee and (iii) the Board of Directors of the Company or the comparable governing body of such surviving entity, as applicable, determines in good faith that such transaction will have no material adverse effect on any Holder of Securities and a Board Resolution (or its equivalent if the surviving entity is not a corporation) to that effect is delivered to the Trustee; and
(c)
                                 
 
the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and, if requested by the Trustee, an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture, comply with this Article VII and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been satisfied.
(d)
                                
 
Successor Corporation Substituted
Section 7.2
                       
 
Upon any consolidation with or merger into any corporation, or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially in their entirety in accordance with Section 7.1, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein, and in the case of a conveyance, transfer, or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially in their entirety, the Company shall be irrevocably released from its liabilities as obligor and maker of the Securities and from its obligations under this Indenture.
Section 8.1             Events of Default.
 
So long as any Securities are outstanding, each of the following shall be an "":
Event of Default
 
(a)           the Company defaults in the payment of any of the principal amount of the Securities, when the same become due and payable at maturity, upon redemption or pursuant to the exercise of a repurchase right under Article IV or Article V hereof;
 
(b)           the Company defaults in the payment of any accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, in each case, when due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days;
 
(c)           following the exercise by the Holder of the right to convert a Security pursuant to and in accordance with Article XII, the Company fails to deliver the cash, Common Stock, or any combination thereof, as applicable, upon conversion pursuant to Section 12.2(d);
 
(d)           the Company fails to provide the Fundamental Change Company Notice as required by this Indenture.
 
(e)           the Company fails to comply with any of its agreements or covenants in the Securities or this Indenture (other than those referred to in clause (a) through (d) above) and such failure continues for 60 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default (defined below);
 
(f)            the Company fails or any Significant Subsidiary fails to make any payment at maturity on any Indebtedness, including any applicable grace periods, in an amount in excess of $75,000,000 in the aggregate for all such Indebtedness and such amount has not been paid or discharged within 30 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default;
 
(g)           a default by the Company or any Significant Subsidiary that results in the acceleration of maturity of any Indebtedness of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary (other than Non-Recourse Indebtedness), at any one time, in an amount in excess of $75,000,000 unless the acceleration is rescinded, stayed or annulled within 30 days after receipt by the Company of a Notice of Default;
 
(h)           the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, pursuant to or under or within the meaning of any Bankruptcy Law:
 
(i)            commences a voluntary case or proceeding;
 
(ii)           consents to the entry of any order for relief against it in an involuntary case or proceeding or the commencement of any case against it;
 
(iii)          consents to the appointment of a Custodian of it or for any substantial part of its property;
 
(iv)          makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors;
 
(v)           files a petition in bankruptcy or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief; or
 
(vi)          consents to the filing of such petition or the appointment of or taking possession by a Custodian; or
(i)            a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
 
(i)            is for relief against the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, in an involuntary case or proceeding;
 
(ii)           appoints a Custodian of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, or for any substantial part of its property; or
 
(iii)          orders the winding up or liquidation of the Company or any Significant Subsidiary,
 
(iv)          and the order of decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 days.
 
A Default under clause (e), (f) or (g) above is not an Event of Default until the Trustee notifies the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities notify the Company and the Trustee in writing, of the Default and the Company does not cure such Default (and such Default is not waived) within the time specified in clause (e), (f) or (g) above after actual receipt of such notice. Any such notice must specify the Default, demand that it be remedied and state that such notice is a "."
Notice of Default
 
Section 8.2             Acceleration.
 
If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default specified in Section 8.1(h) or (i)) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee by notice to the Company, or the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may declare the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on all the Securities to be immediately due and payable. Upon such a declaration, such accelerated amount shall be due and payable immediately.
 
If an Event of Default specified in Section 8.1(h) or (i) occurs and is continuing, the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on all the Securities shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Securityholders.
 
The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder) may rescind an acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree for payment of money under this Indenture or the Securities and if all existing Events of Default have been cured or waived except nonpayment of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, that have become due solely as a result of acceleration and if all amounts due to the Trustee under Section 9.7 have been paid. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent Default or impair any right consequent thereto.
 
Section 8.3             Other Remedies.
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on the Securities or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Securities or this Indenture.
 
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if the Trustee does not possess any of the Securities or does not produce any of the Securities in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Securityholder in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of, or acquiescence in, the Event of Default. No remedy is exclusive of any other remedy. All available remedies are cumulative.
Section 8.4             Waiver of Past Defaults.
 
Subject to Sections 8.7 and 11.2, the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities, by notice to the Trustee (and without notice to any other Securityholder), may waive an existing Default (or Event of Default) and its consequences except:
 
(a)           an Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, or any interest or Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, with respect to, any Security or the payment of any applicable Repurchase Price, Fundamental Change Repurchase Price or Redemption Price; or
 
(b)           a Default in respect of any provision of this Indenture or the Securities, which, under Section 11.2, cannot be amended or modified without the consent of each Securityholder affected thereby.
 
When a Default is waived, it is deemed cured, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any consequent right. This Section 8.4 shall be in lieu of Section 316(a)1(B) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)1(B) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
Section 8.5             Control by Majority.
 
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee or of exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture or that the Trustee determines in good faith is prejudicial to the rights of other Securityholders or would involve the Trustee in personal liability unless the Trustee is offered indemnity or security satisfactory to it. This Section 8.5 shall be in lieu of Section 316(a)1(A) of the TIA and such Section 316(a)1(A) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
Section 8.6             Limitation on Suits.
 
A Securityholder may not pursue any remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Securities unless:
 
(a)           the Holder gives to the Trustee written notice stating that an Event of Default is continuing;
 
(b)           the Holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities make a written request to the Trustee to pursue the remedy;
 
(c)           such Holder or Holders offer to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against any loss, liability or expense;
 
(d)           the Trustee does not comply with the request within 60 days after receipt of such notice, request and offer of security or indemnity; and
 
(e)           the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities do not give the Trustee a direction inconsistent with the request during such 60-day period.
 
A Securityholder may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of any other Securityholder or to obtain a preference or priority over any other Securityholder.
 
Section 8.7             Rights of Holders to Receive Payment or to Convert.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder to receive payment of the principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price, Fundamental Change Repurchase Price or interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, in respect of the Securities held by such Holder, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Securities and in this Indenture, and to convert such Securities in accordance with Article XII,
or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates or the right to convert, is absolute and unconditional and shall not be impaired or affected adversely without the consent of such Holder.
 
Section 8.8             Collection Suit by Trustee.
 
If an Event of Default described in Section 8.1(a) or (b), occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Company or another obligor on the Securities for the whole amount owing with respect to the Securities and the amounts provided for in Section 9.7.
 
Section 8.9             Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price, Fundamental Change Repurchase Price or interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, in respect of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of any such amount) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
 
(a)           to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price, Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, or interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel or any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 9.7) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
 
(b)           to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 9.7.
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
Section 8.10           Priorities.
 
(a)           If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article VIII, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
 
FIRST: to the Trustee for amounts due under Section 9.7;
 
SECOND: to Securityholders for amounts due and unpaid on the Securities for the principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price, Fundamental Change Repurchase Price or interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, as the case may be, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to such amounts due and payable on the Securities; and
 
THIRD: the balance, if any, to the Company.
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Securityholders pursuant to this Section 8.10. At least 15 days before such record date, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder and the Company a notice that states the record date, the payment date and the amount to be paid.
 
Section 8.11           Undertaking for Costs.
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant (other than the Trustee) in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 8.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder pursuant to Section 8.7 or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities. This Section 8.11 shall be in lieu of Section 315(e) of the TIA and such Section 315(e) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
Section 8.12           Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
 
If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceedings to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
 
Section 9.1             Duties of Trustee.
 
(a)           If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee shall exercise the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture and use the same degree of care and skill in its exercise of those rights and powers as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
 
(b)           Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
(i)            the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(ii)           in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture, but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture, but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein.
 
This Section 9.1(b) shall be in lieu of Section 315(a) of the TIA and such Section 315(a) is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
(c)           The Trustee may not be relieved from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that:
(i)            this Section (c) does not limit the effect of Section (b) of this Section 9.1;
 
(ii)           the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
 
(iii)          the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 8.5; and
 
(iv)          the Trustee shall not be liable for disclosure relating to the offering or sale of the Securities.
 
Subparagraphs (c)(i), (ii) and (iii) shall be in lieu of Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) of the TIA, respectively, and such Sections 315(d)(1), 315(d)(2) and 315(d)(3) are hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
(d)           Every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (e) of this Section 9.1.
 
(e)           The Trustee may refuse to perform any duty or exercise any right or power or extend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability unless it receives indemnity or security satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(f)            Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee (acting in any capacity hereunder) shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder unless otherwise agreed in writing with the Company.
 
Section 9.2             Rights of Trustee.
 
Subject to its duties and responsibilities under Section 9.1 and under the TIA,
 
(a)           the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(b)           whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, request, receive and conclusively rely upon an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel;
 
(c)           the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder;
 
(d)           the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith which it believes to be authorized or within its rights or powers conferred under this Indenture;
 
(e)           the Trustee may consult with counsel selected by it and any advice or Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance on such advice or Opinion of Counsel;
(f)            the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Holders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred therein or thereby;
 
(g)           any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
 
(h)           the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney at the sole cost of the Company and shall incur no liability or additional liability of any kind by reason of such inquiry or investigation;
 
(i)            the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any Default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Principal Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
 
(j)            the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and to each officer, director and employee of the Trustee and each agent, custodian and other person employed to act hereunder; and
 
(k)           the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded.
 
Section 9.3             Individual Rights of Trustee.
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. Any Paying Agent, Registrar, Conversion Agent or co-registrar may do the same with like rights. However, the Trustee must comply with Sections 9.10 and 9.11.
 
Section 9.4             Trustee's Disclaimer.
 
The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Securities, it shall not be accountable for the Company's use or application of the proceeds from the Securities, it shall not be responsible for any statement in any registration statement for the Securities under the Securities Act or in any offering document for the Securities, this Indenture or the Securities (other than its certificate of authentication), or the compliance by the Company or any Holder with any federal or state securities laws or the determination as to which beneficial owners are entitled to receive any notices hereunder.
 
Section 9.5             Notice of Defaults.
 
If a Default occurs and if it is actually known to the Trustee, the Trustee shall give to each Securityholder notice of the Default within 90 days after it occurs or, if later, within 15 days after it is known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived before the giving of such notice.
Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, except in the case of a Default described in Section 8.1(a) or (b), the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interest of the Securityholders. The preceding sentence shall be in lieu of the proviso to Section 315(b) of the TIA and such proviso is hereby expressly excluded from this Indenture, as permitted by the TIA.
 
Section 9.6             Reports by Trustee to Holders.
 
Within 60 days after each June 15 beginning with the June 15 following the date of this Indenture, the Trustee shall mail to each Securityholder a brief report dated as of such June 15 that complies with TIA Section 313(a), if required by such Section 313(a). The Trustee also shall comply with TIA Section 313(b). The Trustee will also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA Section 313(c).
 
The Company agrees to notify the Trustee promptly in writing whenever the Securities become listed on any securities exchange and of any delisting thereof.
 
Section 9.7             Compensation and Indemnity.
 
The Company agrees to:
 
(a)           pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as the Company and the Trustee shall from time to time agree in writing for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited (to the extent permitted by law) by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
 
(b)           reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses, advances and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its own negligence or willful misconduct or bad faith; and
 
(c)           fully indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Trustee, any predecessor Trustee and each of their directors, officers, employees and agents for, and to hold each of them harmless against, any and all loss, damage, claim, liability, cost or expense (including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses, and taxes (other than taxes based upon, measured by or determined by the income of the Trustee)) incurred without negligence or willful misconduct or bad faith on the part of the Person so indemnified, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the reasonable costs and expenses of defending against any claim (whether asserted by the Company or any Holder or any other person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any powers or duties hereunder, or in connection with enforcing the provisions of this Section 9.7.
 
The Trustee shall notify the Company promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity hereunder; , that a failure to notify shall not relieve the Company of its obligations hereunder except to the extent the Company is materially prejudiced by such failure. The Trustee shall have the right to employ one separate counsel in any such action or proceeding and participate in the investigation and defense thereof, and the Company shall pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such separate counsel; , that the Trustee may only employ such separate counsel at the expense of the Company if in the reasonable judgment of the outside counsel to the Trustee (i) a conflict of interest exists by reason of common representation or (ii) there are legal defenses available to the Trustee that are different from or are in addition to those available to the Company or if all parties commonly represented do not agree as to the action (or inaction) of counsel.
provided
provided, however
 
To secure the Company's payment obligations in this Section 9.7, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities, which it may exercise by right of set-off, on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay the principal amount, Redemption Price, Repurchase Price,
Fundamental Change Repurchase Price or interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, as the case may be, on particular Securities.
 
Any amounts due and owing the Trustee hereunder (whether in the nature of fees, expenses, indemnification payments or reimbursement for advances) which have not been paid by or on behalf of the Company within 15 days following written notice thereof given to the Company shall bear interest at an interest rate equal to the Trustee's announced prime rate in effect from time to time, plus four percent (4%) per annum.
 
The Company's payment and indemnification obligations pursuant to this Section 9.7 shall survive the discharge of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee. When the Trustee incurs expenses after the occurrence of a Default specified in Section 8.1(h) or (i), the expenses including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel, are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
Section 9.8             Replacement of Trustee.
 
The Trustee may resign by so notifying the Company; , that no such resignation shall be effective until a successor Trustee has accepted its appointment pursuant to this Section 9.8. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Company in writing. The Company as soon as practicable shall remove the Trustee if:
provided, however
 
(a)           the Company becomes aware that the Trustee fails to comply with Section 9.10;
 
(b)           the Trustee is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
 
(c)           a receiver or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
(d)           the Trustee otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
 
If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Company shall promptly appoint, by resolution of its Board of Directors, a successor Trustee.
 
A successor Trustee shall deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Company satisfactory in form and substance to the retiring Trustee and the Company. Thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective, and the successor Trustee shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee shall mail a notice of its succession to Securityholders. The retiring Trustee shall promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, subject to the lien provided for in Section 9.7.
 
If a successor Trustee does not take office within 30 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Company or the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
If the Trustee fails to comply with Section 9.10, any Securityholder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
Section 9.9             Successor Trustee by Merger.
 
If the Trustee consolidates with, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all its corporate trust business or assets to, another corporation or company, the resulting, surviving or transferee corporation without any further act shall be the successor Trustee.
Section 9.10           Eligibility; Disqualification.
 
The Trustee shall at all times satisfy the requirements of TIA Sections 310(a)(1) and 310(b). The Trustee (or its parent holding company) shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000 as set forth in its most recent released annual report of condition. Nothing contained herein shall prevent the Trustee from filing with the Commission the application referred to in the penultimate paragraph of TIA Section 310(b).
 
Section 9.11           Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
 
The Trustee shall comply with TIA Section 311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA Section 311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA Section 311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
 
Section 10.1           Discharge of Liability on Securities.
 
When (a) the Company delivers to the Trustee all Outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced or repaid pursuant to Section 2.7) for cancellation or (b) all Outstanding Securities have become due and payable (whether at the Stated Maturity or upon acceleration, or on any Redemption Date, or with respect to any Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, or upon conversion) and the Company deposits with the Paying Agent or Conversion Agent cash, Common Stock or Reference Property, as applicable, sufficient to pay all amounts due and owing on all Outstanding Securities (other than Securities replaced pursuant to Section 2.7), and if in either case the Company pays all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall, subject to Section 9.7, cease to be of further effect. The Trustee shall join in the execution of a document prepared by the Company acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company.
 
Section 10.2           Repayment to the Company.
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any cash or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the cash or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person and the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall have no further liability to the Securityholders with respect to such cash or securities for that period commencing after the return thereof.
 
Section 11.1           Without Consent of Holders.
 
The Company and the Trustee may amend this Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Securityholder to:
 
(a)           provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to the Holders of Securities in the case of a merger, consolidation, conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition pursuant to Article VII;
 
(b)           add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of Securities;
 
(c)           surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company by the Indenture;
 
(d)           provide for a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities;
 
(e)           provide for issuance of the Securities in coupon form;
(f)            make provision with respect to the conversion rights of Holders of the Securities in accordance with this Indenture in connection with a reclassification, consolidation, combination, merger or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's property and assets;
 
(g)           cure any ambiguity, correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein or which is otherwise defective, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture which the Company may deem necessary or desirable and which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture; , that such action does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities and , that any change to conform this Indenture to the description of the Securities contained in any offering memorandum or registration statement with respect to the Securities shall be deemed not to adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities;
provided, however
further provided, however
 
(h)           add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any of the Securities;
 
(i)            secure the Securities;
 
(j)            increase the Conversion Rate or reduce the Conversion Price; , that such increase in the Conversion Rate or reduction in the Conversion Price, as the case may be, is in accordance with the terms of this Indenture or shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities;
provided, however
 
(k)           supplement any of the provisions of the Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the discharge of the Securities, that such change or modification does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities;
provided
 
(l)            make any changes or modifications necessary in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act as contemplated in the Registration Rights Agreement; , that such action does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities in any material respect;
provided, however
 
(m)          make any changes or modifications necessary to comply with the requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of this Indenture under the TIA; and
 
(n)           add or modify any other provisions herein with respect to matters or questions arising hereunder which the Company and the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable and which would not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities.
 
Section 11.2           With Consent of Holders.
 
Except as provided below in this Section 11.2, this Indenture or the Securities may be amended, modified or supplemented, and noncompliance in any particular instance with any provision of this Indenture or the Securities may be waived, in each case with the written consent or affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than a majority of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities.
 
Without the written consent or the affirmative vote of each Holder of Securities affected thereby (in addition to the written consent or the affirmative vote of the Holders of at least a majority of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities), an amendment or waiver under this Section 11.2 may not:
 
(a)           change the maturity of the principal amount of or the payment date of any installment of interest or Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on, any Security;
(b)           reduce the principal amount of, or rate of interest or Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on, or Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of, any Security;
 
(c)           adversely affect the right of Holders of the Securities to convert such Securities as provided in Article XII;
 
(d)           alter the manner of calculation or rate of accrual of interest or Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on or the Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of, any Security or extend the time for payment of any such amount;
 
(e)           impair the right of any Holder to institute suit for the enforcement of any repurchase of, payment on or with respect to, or conversion of, any Security, including any payment on or after the stated maturity of the Securities, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date, or in the case of repayment at the option of the Holder, on or after the Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date;
 
(f)            modify the optional redemption provisions of Article III in a manner that adversely affects the Holders of the Securities;
 
(g)           change the currency of payment of principal amount of, or interest or Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on, or the Redemption Price, Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price of, any Security from U.S. Dollars;
 
(h)           adversely affect the right of Holders of the Securities to require the Company to repurchase such Securities as provided in Articles IV and V;
 
(i)            modify the obligation of the Company to maintain an agency in The City of New York pursuant to Section 6.5;
 
(j)            reduce the percentage of the principal amount of the outstanding Securities the written consent or affirmative vote of whose Holders is required to take specific actions under the Indenture;
 
(k)           reduce the percentage of the principal amount of the outstanding Securities the written consent or affirmative vote of whose Holders is required for any waiver of any past Default provided for in this Indenture; or
 
(l)            modify any of (a)-(k) above.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Holders under this Section 11.2 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment, but it shall be sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
 
After an amendment under this Section 11.2 becomes effective, the Company shall mail to each Holder a notice briefly describing the amendment.
 
Nothing contained in this Section 11.2 shall impair the ability of the Company and the Trustee to amend this Indenture or the Securities without the consent of any Securityholder to provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to the Holders of Securities in the case of a merger, consolidation, conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition pursuant to Article VII.
 
Section 11.3           Compliance with Trust Indenture Act.
 
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall comply with the TIA.
Section 11.4           Revocation and Effect of Consents, Waivers and Actions.
 
Until an amendment, waiver or other action by Holders becomes effective, a consent thereto by a Holder of a Security hereunder is a continuing consent by the Holder and every subsequent Holder of that Security or portion of the Security that evidences the same obligation as the consenting Holder's Security, even if notation of the consent, waiver or action is not made on the Security. However, any such Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the consent, waiver or action as to such Holder's Security or portion of the Security if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the amendment, waiver or action becomes effective. After an amendment, waiver or action becomes effective, it shall bind every Securityholder.
 
Section 11.5           Notation on or Exchange of Securities.
 
Securities authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article XI may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for outstanding Securities.
 
Section 11.6           Trustee to Sign Supplemental Indentures.
 
The Trustee shall sign any supplemental indenture authorized pursuant to this Article XI if the amendment contained therein does not affect the rights, duties, liabilities, protections, privileges, indemnities or immunities of the Trustee. If it does, the Trustee may, but need not, sign such supplemental indenture. In signing such supplemental indenture the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to the provisions of Section 9.1) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that such amendment is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
 
Section 11.7           Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
 
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
 
Section 12.1           Conversion Privilege.
 
(a)           Subject to the conditions described in Sections 12.1 (a)(i), (ii) and (iii) below, and upon compliance with the provisions of this Article XII, a Holder of a Security shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert all or any portion (if the portion to be converted is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) of such Security at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding June 15, 2011 at a rate (the "") of 14.1328 shares of Common Stock (subject to adjustment by the Company as provided in Section 12.4) per $1,000 principal amount Security (the "") under the circumstances and during the periods set forth below. On and after June 15, 2011, regardless of the conditions described in Sections 12.1(a)(i), (ii) and (iii) below, and upon compliance with the provisions of this Article XII, a Holder of a Security shall have the right, at such holder's option, to convert all or any portion (if the portion to be converted is $1,000 principal amount or an integral multiple thereof) of such Security at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time on the scheduled Trading Day immediately preceding the Stated Maturity.
Conversion Rate
Conversion Obligation
 
(i)            The Securities shall be convertible prior to June 15, 2011, during any fiscal quarter (beginning after the quarter ending June 30, 2006) if the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock for at least 20 consecutive Trading Days in a period of 30 consecutive Trading
Days ending on the last Trading Day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter exceeds 130% of the Conversion Price in effect on the last Trading Day of such preceding fiscal quarter. The Conversion Agent will determine on the Company's behalf at the beginning of each calendar quarter commencing at any time after June 30, 2006 through the calendar quarter ending June 30, 2011 whether the Securities are convertible as a result of the price of the Common Stock pursuant to this section and will notify the Company and the Trustee if the Securities are so convertible.
 
(ii)           The Securities shall be convertible prior to June 15, 2011, during the five Business Day period immediately after any five consecutive Trading Day period (the "") in which the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Securities for each day of such Measurement Period was less than 97% of the product of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on such date and the Conversion Rate on such date, all as determined by the Trustee. The Trustee shall have no obligation to determine the Trading Price of the Securities unless requested by the Company to do so in writing, and the Company shall have no obligation to make such request unless a Holder provides the Company with reasonable evidence that the Trading Price of the Securities would be less than 97% of the product of (a) the then-applicable Conversion Rate of the Securities and (b) the Last Reported Sale Price at such time, at which time the Company shall instruct the Trustee to determine the Trading Price of the Securities beginning on the next Trading Day and on each successive Trading Day until the Trading Price per Security is greater than or equal to 97% of the product of (a) the then-applicable Conversion Rate of the Securities and (b) the Last Reported Sale Price on such date. If the Trading Price condition set forth above has been met, the Company shall so notify the Holders. If, at any time after the Trading Price condition set forth above has been met, the Trading Price per $1,000 principal amount of Securities is greater than 97% of the product of (a) the then-applicable Conversion Rate of the Securities and (b) the Last Reported Sale Price on such date, the Company shall so notify the Holders.
Measurement Period
 
(iii)          The Securities shall be convertible prior to June 15, 2011 as provided in Sections 12.1(b), (c), (d), and (e).
 
(b)           In the event that the Company elects to:
 
(i)            distribute to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock rights entitling them to purchase, for a period expiring within 60 days after the record date for such distribution, Common Stock at a price less than the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock for the Trading Day immediately preceding the declaration date of such distribution; or
 
(ii)           distribute to all or substantially all holders of Common Stock, assets or debt securities of the Company or rights to purchase the Company's securities, which distribution has a per share value (as determined by the Board of Directors) exceeding 10% of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the day immediately preceding the date of declaration of such distribution,
 
then, in either case, holders may surrender the Securities for conversion at any time on and after the date that the Company provides notice to holders referred to in the next sentence until the earlier of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution or the date the Company announces that such distribution will not take place. The Company shall notify holders of any distribution referred to in either clause (i) or clause (ii) above and of the resulting conversion right no later than the 35th Business Day prior to the Ex-Dividend Date for such distribution.
 
(c)           If the Company consolidates with or merges with or into another Person or is a party to a binding share exchange or conveys, transfers, sells, leases or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of its properties and assets in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock would be converted into cash, securities and/or other property, then the holders shall have the right to convert Securities at any time beginning 15 calendar days prior to the date announced by the Company as the anticipated effective date of
the transaction and until and including the date that is 15 calendar days after the date that is the effective date of such transaction; such transaction does not otherwise constitute a Fundamental Change to which the provisions of Section 12.1(d) shall apply. The Company will notify holders of Securities at least 20 calendar days prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction. The Board of Directors shall determine the anticipated effective date of the transaction, and such determination shall be conclusive and binding on the holders and shall be publicly announced by the Company and posted on its web site not later than two Business Day prior to such 15th day.
provided
 
(d)           If the Company is a party to any transaction or event that constitutes a Fundamental Change, a holder may surrender Securities for conversion at any time from and after the 30th scheduled Trading Day prior to the anticipated effective date of such transaction or event until the related Fundamental Change Repurchase Date and, upon such surrender, the holder shall be entitled to the increase in the Conversion Rate, if any, specified in Section 12.l(f). The Company shall give notice to all record Holders and the Trustee of the Fundamental Change no later than 30 scheduled Trading Days prior to the anticipated effective date of the Fundamental Change.
 
(e)           If the Company has called a Security for redemption pursuant to Article III hereof, the Holders shall have the right to convert such Security at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Redemption Date.
 
(f)            (i)            If a Holder elects to convert Securities in connection with a Fundamental Change that occurs prior to June 15, 2011, the Conversion Rate applicable to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities so converted shall be increased by an additional number of shares of Common Stock (the "") as described below. Settlement of Securities tendered for conversion to which Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate as provided in this subsection shall be settled pursuant to Section 12.2(d) below. For purposes of this Section 12.1(f), a conversion shall be deemed to be "in connection" with a Fundamental Change to the extent that such conversion is effected during the time period specified in Section 12.1(d) (regardless of whether the provisions of clause (a)(i), (a)(ii), (b), (c) or (e) of this Section 12.1 shall apply to such conversion).
Additional Shares
 
(ii)           The number of Additional Shares by which the Conversion Rate will be increased shall be determined by reference to the table attached as Schedule A hereto, based on the date on which the Fundamental Change occurs or becomes effective (the ""), and the Stock Price; that if the actual Stock Price is between two Stock Price amounts in the table or the Effective Date is between two Effective Dates in the table, the number of Additional Shares shall be determined by a straight-line interpolation between the number of Additional Shares set forth for the next higher and next lower Stock Price amounts and the two nearest Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year; further that if (l) the Stock Price is greater than $200.00 per share of Common Stock (subject to adjustment in the same manner as set forth in Section 12.4), no Additional Shares will be added to the Conversion Rate, and (2) the Stock Price is less than $45.65 per share (subject to adjustment in the same manner as set forth in Section 12.4), no Additional Shares will be added to the Conversion Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion exceed 21.5498 per $1,000 principal amount of Securities (subject to adjustment in the same manner as set forth in Section 12.4).
Effective Date
provided
provided
 
(iii)          The Stock Prices set forth in the first row of the table in Schedule A hereto shall be adjusted as of any date on which the Conversion Rate of the Securities is adjusted. The adjusted Stock Prices shall equal the Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Stock Price adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. The number of Additional Shares within the table shall be adjusted in the same manner as the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 12.4 (other than by operation of an adjustment to the Conversion Rate by adding Additional Shares).
Section 12.2           Conversion Procedure.
 
(a)           (i)            Subject to Section 12.2(a)(ii), the Company will satisfy the Conversion Obligation with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities tendered for conversion in cash and shares of fully paid Common Stock, if applicable, by delivering as promptly as practicable following the end of the Conversion Reference Period:
 
(A)          Cash in an amount equal to the lesser of (A) $1,000 and (B) the Conversion Value (the ""), and
Required Cash Amount
 
(B)           if the Conversion Value is greater than $1,000, a number of shares of Common Stock (the ""), equal to the sum of the Daily Share Amounts for each of the thirty consecutive Trading Days in the Conversion Reference Period, subject to the right of the Company to deliver cash in lieu of all or a portion of such Remaining Shares as described below.
Remaining Shares
 
(ii)           Notwithstanding Section 12.2(a)(i), the Company shall satisfy the Conversion Obligation with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities tendered for conversion to which Additional Shares shall be added to the Conversion Rate as set forth in Section 12.1(f) pursuant to this Section 12.2(a)(ii).
 
(A)          If the last day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period related to Securities surrendered for conversion is prior to the third Trading Day preceding the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change, the Company will satisfy the related Conversion Obligation with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities tendered for conversion by delivering the cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, (based on the Conversion Rate, but without regard to the number of Additional Shares to be added to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 12.1(f)) on the third Trading Day immediately following the last day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period. As soon as practicable following the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change, the Company will deliver the increase in such amount of cash and Reference Property in lieu of shares of Common Stock, if any, as if the Conversion Rate had been increased by such number of Additional Shares during the related Conversion Reference Period (and based upon the related daily Volume Weighted Average Price prices during such Conversion Reference Period).
 
(B)           If the last day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period related to Securities surrendered for conversion is on or following the third scheduled Trading Day preceding the Effective Date of such Fundamental Change, the Company will satisfy the Conversion Obligation with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities tendered for conversion (based on the Conversion Rate as increased by the Additional Shares pursuant to Section 12.l(f) above) on the later to occur of (1) the Effective Date of the Fundamental Change and (2) the third Trading Day immediately following the last day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period.
 
(b)           By 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Trading Day prior to the first Trading Day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company may specify a percentage of the Daily Share Amount that will be settled in cash (the "") and will notify the Holder of such Cash Percentage through written notice to the Trustee (the "").  If the Company elects to specify a Cash Percentage, (x) the amount of cash that the Company will deliver in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period, in addition to the Required Cash Amount, will equal the product of:  (i) the Cash Percentage, (ii) the Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day, and (iii) the Volume Weighted Average Price of the Common Stock for such Trading Day ( that after the consummation of a Fundamental Change in which the consideration is comprised entirely of cash, the amount used in this clause (iii) will be the cash price per share received by holders of Common Stock in
Cash Percentage
Cash Percentage Notice
provided
such Fundamental Change) and (y) the number of shares of Common Stock deliverable in respect of each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period (in lieu of the full Daily Share Amount for such Trading Day pursuant to Section 12.2(a)(i)) above) will be a percentage of the Daily Share Amount equal to 100% the Cash Percentage.  If the Company does not specify a Cash Percentage by 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Trading Day immediately preceding the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period, the Company shall settle 100% of the Daily Share Amount for each Trading Day in the applicable Conversion Reference Period with shares of Common Stock; that the Company will pay cash in lieu of fractional shares otherwise issuable upon conversion of such Security, pursuant to Section 12.2(k) hereof.  The Company may, at its option, revoke any Cash Percentage Notice through written notice to the Trustee by 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Trading Day immediately preceding the start of the applicable Conversion Reference Period.
minus
provided, however,
 
(c)           Before any holder of a Security shall be entitled to convert the same as set forth above, such holder shall (1) in the case of a Global Security, comply with the procedures of the Depositary in effect at that time and, if required, pay funds equal to interest payable on the next Interest Payment Date to which such holder is not entitled as set forth in Section 12.2(i) and, if required, pay all taxes or duties, if any, and (2) in the case of a Security issued in certificated form, (A) complete and manually sign and deliver an irrevocable written notice to the Conversion Agent in the form on the reverse of such certificated Security (or a facsimile thereof) (a "") at the office of the Conversion Agent and shall state in writing therein the principal amount of Securities to be converted and the name or names (with addresses) in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for any shares of Common Stock, if any, to be delivered upon settlement of the Conversion Obligation to be registered, (B) surrender such Securities, duly endorsed to the Company or in blank (and accompanied by appropriate endorsement and transfer documents), at the office of the Conversion Agent, (C) if required, pay funds equal to interest payable on the next Interest Payment Date to which such holder is not entitled as set forth in Section 12.2(i), and (D) if required, pay all taxes or duties, if any. A Security shall be deemed to have been converted immediately prior to the close of business on the date (the "") that the holder has complied with the requirements set forth in this Section 12.2(c).
Notice of Conversion
Conversion Date
 
No Notice of Conversion with respect to any Securities may be tendered by a holder thereof if such holder has also tendered a Repurchase Notice or a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice and not validly withdrawn such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 4.3 or 5.3, as the case may be.
 
If more than one Security shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same holder, the Conversion Obligation with respect to such Securities, if any, that shall be payable upon conversion shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted thereby) so surrendered.
 
(d)           Delivery of the amounts owing in satisfaction of the Conversion Obligation shall be made by the Company in no event later than the date specified in Section 12.2(a). The Company shall make such delivery by paying the cash amount owed to the Conversion Agent or to the Holder of the Security surrendered for conversion, or such Holder's nominee or nominees, and by issuing, or causing to be issued, and delivering to the Conversion Agent or to such Holder, or such Holder's nominee or nominees, certificates or a book-entry transfer through the Depositary for the number of full shares of Common Stock to which such Holder shall be entitled as part of such Conversion Obligation (together with any cash in lieu of fractional shares).
 
(e)           In case any Security shall be surrendered for partial conversion, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to or upon the written order of the holder of the Security so surrendered, without charge to such holder, a new Security or Securities in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Securities.
(f)            If a holder submits a Security for conversion, the Company shall pay all stamp and other duties, if any, which may be imposed by the United States or any political subdivision thereof or taxing authority thereof or therein with respect to the issuance of shares of Common Stock, if any, upon the conversion. However, the Holder shall pay any such tax which is due because the Holder requests any shares of Common Stock to be issued in a name other than the holder's name. The Conversion Agent may refuse to deliver the certificates representing the shares of Common Stock being issued in a name other than the Holder's name until the Trustee receives a sum sufficient to pay any tax which will be due because the shares are to be issued in a name other than the Holder's name. Nothing herein shall preclude any tax withholding required by law or regulations.
 
(g)           Except as provided in Section 12.4, no adjustment shall be made for dividends on any shares issued upon the conversion of any Security as provided in this Article.
 
(h)           Upon the conversion of an interest in a Global Security, the Trustee shall make a notation on such Global Security as to the reduction in the principal amount represented thereby. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of any conversion of Securities effected through any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee.
 
(i)            Upon conversion, a Holder will not receive any separate cash payment for accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, except as set forth below. The Company's settlement of the Conversion Obligations as described above shall be deemed to satisfy its obligation to pay the principal amount of the Security and accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to, but not including, the Conversion Date. As a result, accrued and unpaid interest and Additional Interest, if any, to, but not including, the Conversion Date shall be deemed to be paid in full rather than cancelled, extinguished or forfeited. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if Securities are converted after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on a record date, Holders of such Securities as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the record date will receive the interest and Additional Interest, if any, payable on such Securities on the corresponding Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion. Securities surrendered for conversion during the period from 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on any Regular Record Date to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the corresponding Interest Payment Date must be accompanied by payment of an amount equal to the interest and Additional Interest, if any, payable on the Securities so converted; that no such payment need be made (1) if the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date that is after a record date and on or prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, (2) for conversions following the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the final Interest Payment Date for the Securities, (3) if the Company has called the Securities for redemption or (4) to the extent of any overdue interest or Additional Interest, if any, existing at the time of conversion with respect to such Security. Except as described above, no payment or adjustment will be made for accrued interest on converted Securities.
provided, however,
 
(j)            The Person in whose name the certificate for any shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion is registered shall be treated as a stockholder of record on and after the Conversion Date; that no surrender of Securities on any date when the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed shall be effective to constitute the Person or Persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock upon such conversion as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock on such date, but such surrender shall be effective to constitute the Person or Persons entitled to receive such shares of Common Stock as the record holder or holders thereof for all purposes at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open; such conversion shall be at the Conversion Rate in effect on the date that such Securities shall have been surrendered for conversion, as if the stock transfer books of the Company had not been closed. Upon conversion of Securities, such Person shall no longer be a Holder.
provided, however,
 
(k)           No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of any Security or Securities. If more than one Security shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares that shall be issued upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (or specified portions thereof) so surrendered. Instead of any fractional share of Common Stock that would otherwise be issued upon conversion of any Security or
Securities (or specified portions thereof), the Company shall pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fraction (calculated to the nearest one-100th of a share) in an amount equal to the same fraction of the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the last day of the applicable Conversion Reference Period.
 
Section 12.3           [Intentionally Omitted].
 
Section 12.4           Adjustment of Conversion Rate.
 
The Conversion Rate shall be adjusted from time to time by the Company as follows:
 
(a)           In case the Company shall issue shares of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to holders of the outstanding Common Stock, or shall effect a subdivision into a greater number of shares of Common Stock or combination into a lesser number of shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
where
 
 
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day following the Record Date fixed for such determination. If any dividend or distribution of the type described in this Section 12.4(a) is declared but not so paid or made, or the outstanding shares of Common Stock are not subdivided or combined, as the case may be, the Conversion Rate shall be immediately readjusted, effective as of the date the Board of Directors determines not to pay such dividend or distribution, or subdivide or combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock, as the case may be, to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend, distribution, subdivision or combination had not been declared.
 
(b)           In case the Company shall issue to all or substantially all holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock rights, warrants or convertible securities entitling them (for a period expiring within sixty (60) calendar days after the issuance thereof) to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Business Day immediately preceding the date of announcement of such issuance, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
where
 
 
Such adjustment shall be successively made whenever any such rights, warrants or convertible securities are issued and shall become effective immediately after 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day following the date fixed for such determination. If such rights, warrants or convertible securities are not so issued, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such Record Date for such distribution had not been fixed. To the extent that shares of Common Stock are not delivered after the expiration of such rights, warrants or convertible securities, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustments made upon the issuance of such rights, warrants or convertible securities been made on the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.
 
In determining whether any rights, warrants or convertible securities entitle the holders to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less than such Last Reported Sale Price, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Company for such rights, warrants or convertible securities and any amount payable on exercise or conversion thereof, the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors.
 
(c)           In case the Company shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Company (other than Common Stock as covered by Section 12.4(a)), evidences of its indebtedness or other assets or property of the Company (including securities, but excluding dividends and distributions covered by Section 12.4(b) or Section 12.4(d) and distributions described below in this paragraph (c) with respect to Spin-Offs) (any of such shares of Capital Stock, indebtedness, or other asset or property hereinafter in this Section 12.4(c) called the ""), then, in each such case the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
Distributed Property
 
where
 
 
 as set forth above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder shall have the right to receive, for each $1,000 principal amount of Securities upon conversion, the amount of
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately prior to 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Business Day following the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution; that if the then fair market value (as so determined) of the portion of the Distributed Property so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than SP
provided
o
Distributed Property such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate on the Record Date. If such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared. If the Board of Directors determines the fair market value of any distribution for purposes of this Section 12.4(c) by reference to the actual or when issued trading market for any securities, it must in doing so consider the prices in such market over the same period used in determining SP above.
o
 
With respect to an adjustment pursuant to this Section 12.4(c) where there has been a payment of a dividend or other distribution on the Common Stock or shares of Capital Stock of any class or series, or similar equity interest, of or relating to a Subsidiary or other business unit (a ""), the Conversion Rate in effect immediately before 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Record Date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive the distribution will be increased based on the following formula:
Spin-Off
 
where
 
 
Such adjustment shall occur on the tenth Trading Day from, and including, the effective date of the Spin-Off; that in respect of any conversion within the ten Trading Days following any Spin-Off, references within this paragraph (c) to ten days shall be deemed replaced with such lesser number of trading days as have elapsed between such Spin-Off and the conversion date in determining the applicable Conversion Rate.
provided
 
Rights or warrants distributed by the Company to all holders of Common Stock, entitling the holders thereof to subscribe for or purchase shares of the Company's Capital Stock, including Common Stock (either initially or under certain circumstances), which rights or warrants, until the occurrence of a specified event or events (""): (i) are deemed to be transferred with such shares of Common Stock; (ii) are not exercisable; and (iii) are also issued in respect of future issuances of Common Stock, shall be deemed not to have been distributed for purposes of this Section 12.4 (and no adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 12.4 will be required) until the occurrence of the earliest Trigger Event, whereupon such rights and warrants shall be deemed to have been distributed and an appropriate adjustment (if any is required) to the Conversion Rate shall be made under this Section 12.4(c). If any such right or warrant, including any such existing rights or warrants distributed prior to the date of this Indenture, are subject to events, upon the occurrence of which such rights or warrants become exercisable to purchase different securities, evidences of indebtedness or other assets, then the date of the occurrence of any and each such event shall be deemed to be the date of distribution and record date with respect to new rights or warrants with such rights (and a termination or expiration of the existing rights or warrants without exercise by any of the holders thereof). In addition, in the event of any distribution (or deemed distribution) of rights or warrants, or any Trigger Event or other event (of the type described in the preceding sentence) with respect thereto that was counted for purposes of calculating a distribution amount for which an adjustment to the Conversion Rate under this Section 12.4 was made, (l) in the case of any such rights or warrants that shall all have been redeemed or repurchased without exercise by any holders
Trigger Event
thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted upon such final redemption or repurchase to give effect to such distribution or Trigger Event, as the case may be, as though it were a cash distribution, equal to the per share redemption or repurchase price received by a holder or holders of Common Stock with respect to such rights or warrants (assuming such holder had retained such rights or warrants), made to all holders of Common Stock as of the date of such redemption or repurchase, and (2) in the case of such rights or warrants that shall have expired or been terminated without exercise by any holders thereof, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted as if such rights and warrants had not been issued.
 
For purposes of this Section 12.4(c), Section 12.4(a) and Section 12.4(b), any dividend or distribution to which this Section 12.4(c) is applicable that also includes shares of Common Stock to which Section 12.4(a) applies or rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock to which Section 12.4(a) or Section 12.4(b) applies (or both), shall be deemed instead to be (1) a dividend or distribution of the evidences of indebtedness, assets or shares of capital stock other than such shares of Common Stock or rights or warrants to which Section 12.4(b) applies (and any Conversion Rate adjustment required by this Section 12.4(c) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made) immediately followed by (2) a dividend or distribution of such shares of Common Stock or such rights or warrants (and any further Conversion Rate adjustment required by Section 12.4(a) and Section 12.4(b) with respect to such dividend or distribution shall then be made), except (A) the record date of such dividend or distribution shall be substituted as "the Record Date" and "the date fixed for such determination" within the meaning of Section 12.4(a) and Section 12.4(b) and (B) any shares of Common Stock included in such dividend or distribution shall not be deemed "outstanding immediately prior to such event" within the meaning of Section 12.4(a).
 
(d)           In case the Company shall pay a dividend or make a distribution consisting exclusively of cash to all or substantially all holders of its Common Stock, the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted based on the following formula:
 
where
 
 
Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Record Date for such dividend or distribution; that if the portion of the cash so distributed applicable to one share of Common Stock is equal to or greater than SPas above, in lieu of the foregoing adjustment, adequate provision shall be made so that each Holder shall have the right to receive upon conversion of a Security (or any portion thereof) the amount of cash such Holder would have received had such Holder owned a number of shares equal to the Conversion Rate on the Record Date. If such dividend or distribution is not so paid or made, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such dividend or distribution had not been declared.
provided
o
 
For the avoidance of doubt, for purposes of this Section l2.4(d), in the event of any reclassification of the Common Stock, as a result of which the Securities become convertible into more than one class of Common Stock, if an adjustment to the Conversion Rate is required pursuant to this Section l2.4(d), references in this Section to one share of Common Stock or Last Reported Sale Price of one share of Common Stock shall be deemed to refer to a unit or to the price of a unit consisting of the number of shares
of each class of Common Stock into which the Securities are then convertible equal to the numbers of shares of such class issued in respect of one share of Common Stock in such reclassification. The above provisions of this paragraph shall similarly apply to successive reclassifications.
 
(e)           In case the Company or any of its Subsidiaries makes a payment in respect of a tender offer or exchange offer for all or any portion of the Common Stock, to the extent that the cash and value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of Common Stock exceeds the Last Reported Sale Price of the Common Stock on the Trading Day next succeeding the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer (as it may be amended), the Conversion Rate shall be based on the following formula:
 
where
 
 
such adjustment to become effective immediately prior to the opening of business on the day following the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to such tender or exchange offer. If the Company is obligated to purchase shares pursuant to any such tender or exchange offer, but the Company is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting all or any such purchases or all or any portion of such purchases are rescinded, the Conversion Rate shall again be adjusted to be the Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender or exchange offer had not been made or had only been made in respect of the purchases that had been effected. No adjustment to the Conversion Rate will be made if the application of the foregoing formulae would result in a decrease in the Conversion Rate.
 
(f)            For purposes of this Section 12.4 the term "" shall mean, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of Common Stock have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board of Directors or by statute, contract or otherwise).
Record Date
 
(g)           In addition to those required by clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this Section 12.4, and to the extent permitted by applicable law and subject to the applicable rules of the New York Stock Exchange, the Company from time to time may increase the Conversion Rate by any amount for a period of at least 20 days if the Board of Directors determines that such increase would be in the Company's best interest. In addition, the Company may also (but is not required to) increase the Conversion Rate to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of Common Stock or rights to purchase Common Stock in
connection with any dividend or distribution of shares (or rights to acquire shares) or similar event. Whenever the Conversion Rate is increased pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Company shall mail to the holder of each Security at his last address appearing on the registration books of the Registrar a notice of the increase at least 15 days prior to the date the increased Conversion Rate takes effect, and such notice shall state the increased Conversion Rate and the period during which it will be in effect.
 
(h)           All calculations and other determinations under this Article XII shall be made by the Company and shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest one-ten thousandth (1/10,000) of a share, as the case may be. No adjustment shall be made for the Company's issuance of Common Stock or convertible or exchangeable securities or rights to purchase Common Stock or convertible or exchangeable securities, other than as provided in this Section 12.4. No adjustment shall be made to the Conversion Rate unless such adjustment would require a change of at least 1% in the Conversion Rate then in effect at such time. The Company shall carry forward any adjustments that are less than 1% of the Conversion rate and make such carried forward adjustments, regardless of whether the aggregate adjustment is less than 1% within one year of the first such adjustment carried forward, upon a Fundamental Change, upon any call of the Securities for redemption or upon maturity.
 
(i)            Whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted as herein provided, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent other than the Trustee an Officers' Certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate after such adjustment and setting forth a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment. The Trustee and Conversion Agent may conclusively rely on the accuracy of the Conversion Rate adjustment provided by the Company. Unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received such Officers' Certificate, the Trustee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any adjustment of the Conversion Rate and may assume without inquiry that the last Conversion Rate of which it has knowledge is still in effect. Promptly after delivery of such Officers' Certificate, the Company shall prepare a notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate and the date on which each adjustment becomes effective and shall mail such notice of such adjustment of the Conversion Rate to the Holder of each Security at his last address appearing on the registration books of the Registrar, within 20 days of the effective date of such adjustment. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of any such adjustment.
 
(j)            In any case in which this Section 12.4 provides that an adjustment shall become effective immediately after (l) a record date or Record Date for an event, (2) the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive a dividend or distribution pursuant to Section 12.4(a), (3) a date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive rights or warrants pursuant to Section 12.4(b), or (4) the last date on which tenders or exchanges may be made pursuant to any tender or exchange offer pursuant to Section 12.4(e) (each an ""), the Company may elect to defer until the occurrence of the applicable Adjustment Event (as hereinafter defined) (x) issuing to the holder of any Security converted after such Adjustment Determination Date and before the occurrence of such Adjustment Event, the additional cash and, if applicable, shares of Common Stock or other securities issuable upon such conversion by reason of the adjustment required by such Adjustment Event over and above the amounts deliverable upon such conversion before giving effect to such adjustment and (y) paying to such holder any amount in cash in lieu of any fraction pursuant to Section 12.4. For purposes of this Section 12.4(j), the term "" shall mean:
Adjustment Determination Date
Adjustment Event
 
(i)            in any case referred to in clause (l) hereof, the occurrence of such event,
 
(ii)           in any case referred to in clause (2) hereof, the date any such dividend or distribution is paid or made,
 
(iii)          in any case referred to in clause (3) hereof, the date of expiration of such rights or warrants, and
 
(iv)          in any case referred to in clause (4) hereof, the date a sale or exchange of Common Stock pursuant to such tender or exchange offer is consummated and becomes irrevocable.
(k)           For purposes of this Section 12.4, the number of shares of Common Stock at any time outstanding shall not include shares held in the treasury of the Company but shall include shares issuable in respect of scrip certificates issued in lieu of fractions of shares of Common Stock.
 
Section 12.5           Shares to Be Fully Paid. The Company shall provide, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares or shares held in treasury, sufficient shares of Common Stock to provide for conversion of the Securities from time to time as such Securities are presented for conversion.
 
Section 12.6           Effect of Reclassification, Consolidation, Merger or Sale.
 
If any of the following events occur, namely (i) any reclassification or change of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (other than a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value, or as a result of a split, subdivision or combination), (ii) any consolidation, merger or combination of the Company with another Person, or (iii) any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company to any other Person, in each case as a result of which holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive cash, securities or other property or assets with respect to or in exchange for such Common Stock (any such event a ""), then:
Merger Event
 
(a)           the Company or the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, shall execute with the Trustee a supplemental indenture (which shall comply with the TIA as in force at the date of execution of such supplemental indenture if such supplemental indenture is then required to so comply) permitted under Section 11.1 providing that notwithstanding the provisions of Section 12.2, and subject to the provisions of Section 12.1, the Conversion Value with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities converted following the effective date of any Merger Event, shall be calculated based on the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property (collectively, "") received upon the occurrence of such Merger Event by a holder of Common Stock holding, immediately prior to the transaction, a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Conversion Rate immediately prior to such Merger Event; that if the Merger Event provides the holders of Common Stock with the right to receive more than a single type of consideration determined based in part upon any form of stockholder election, the Reference Property shall be comprised of the weighted average of the types and amounts of consideration received by the holders of the Common Stock.
Reference Property
provided
 
(b)           If the Conversion Value of the Securities shall be based on Reference Property as set forth above, the Company's obligation to deliver the consideration described in Section 12.1 with respect to each $1,000 principal amount of Securities tendered for conversion after the effective date of any such Merger Event, shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in Section 12.1, be settled in cash and units of Reference Property (if applicable) and the Company shall deliver, as promptly as practicable immediately following the last Trading Day of the Conversion Reference Period:
 
(1)           Cash in an amount equal to the Required Cash Amount, and
 
(2)           if the Conversion Value is greater than $1,000, (a) cash equal to the difference between the aggregate Conversion Value and $1,000, (b) an amount in Reference Property, determined as set forth in Section 12.2(b), with a fair market value, as determined by the Conversion Agent, equal to the Conversion Value less $1,000 or (c) a combination thereof, at the Company's election, determined as set forth in Section 12.2(b); and
 
(3)           an amount in cash in lieu of any fractional shares of Common Stock calculated as provided in Section 12.2(k),
 
that, in each case, (x) the Conversion Value and the Daily Share Amounts, shall be determined as if the words "Volume Weighted Average Price per share of Common Stock" in the definition of each such term were replaced by the words "Volume Weighted Average Price per unit of Reference Property composed of the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property that a holder of one share of Common Stock immediately prior to such Merger Event would have owned or been entitled to receive",
provided
(y) the Volume Weighted Average Price shall be determined with respect to such a unit of Reference Property and (z) references to "Remaining Shares" and "shares of Common Stock" were instead references to "a unit of Reference Property composed of the kind and amount of cash, securities or other property that a holder of one share of Common Stock immediately prior to such Merger Event would have owned or been entitled to receive."
 
(c)           Such supplemental indenture shall provide for adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article XII. If, in the case of any such Merger Event, the stock or other securities and assets receivable thereupon by a holder of Common Stock includes shares of stock or other securities and assets of a Person other than the successor or purchasing Person, as the case may be, in such Merger Event, then such supplemental indenture shall also be executed by such other Person and shall contain such additional provisions to protect the interests of the Holders as the Board of Directors shall reasonably consider necessary by reason of the foregoing.
 
(d)           The Company shall cause notice of the execution of such supplemental indenture to be mailed to each Holder, at the address of such Holder as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar, within 20 days after execution thereof. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the legality or validity of such supplemental indenture.
 
(e)           If this Section 12.6 applies to any event or occurrence, Section 12.4 shall not apply. The above provisions of this Section shall similarly apply to successive Merger Events.
 
(f)            In the event the Company shall execute a supplemental indenture pursuant to this Section 12.6, the Company shall promptly file with the Trustee an Officers' Certificate briefly stating the reasons therefore, the kind or amount of cash, securities or property or asset that will constitute the Reference Property after any such Merger Event, any adjustment to be made with respect thereto and that all conditions precedent have been complied with.
 
Section 12.7           Certain Covenants.
 
(a)           Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment reducing the Conversion Rate below the then par value, if any, of the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities, the Company will take all corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue shares of such Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Rate.
 
The Company covenants that all shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of Securities will be fully paid and non-assessable by the Company and free from all taxes, liens and changes with respect to the issue thereof.
 
(b)           The Company covenants that, if any shares of Common Stock to be provided for the purpose of conversion of Securities hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority under any federal or state law before such shares may be validly issued upon conversion, the Company will in good faith and as expeditiously as possible, to the extent then permitted by the rules and interpretations of the Commission (or any successor thereto), endeavor to secure such registration or approval, as the case may be.
 
(c)           The Company further covenants that if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system the Company will, if permitted and required by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Securities.
 
Section 12.8           Responsibility of Trustee. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not at any time be under any duty or responsibility to any Holder to determine the Conversion Rate or whether any facts exist which
may require any adjustment of the Conversion Rate, or with respect to the nature or extent or calculation of any such adjustment when made, or with respect to the method employed, or herein or in any supplemental indenture provided to be employed, in making the same. The Trustee and any other Conversion Agent shall not be accountable with respect to the validity or value (or the kind or amount) of any shares of Common Stock, or of any securities or property, which may at any time be issued or delivered upon the conversion of any Security; and the Trustee and any other Conversion Agent make no representations with respect thereto. Neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be responsible for any failure of the Company to issue, transfer or deliver any shares of Common Stock or stock certificates or other securities or property or cash upon the surrender of any Security for the purpose of conversion or to comply with any of the duties, responsibilities or covenants of the Company contained in this Article.
 
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither the Trustee nor any Conversion Agent shall be under any responsibility to determine the correctness of any provisions contained in any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to Section 12.6 relating either to the kind or amount of shares of stock or securities or property (including cash) receivable by Holders upon the conversion of their Securities after any event referred to in such Section 12.6 or to any adjustment to be made with respect thereto, but, subject to the provisions of Section 9.1, may accept as conclusive evidence of the correctness of any such provisions, and shall be protected in relying upon, the Officers' Certificate (which the Company shall be obligated to file with the Trustee prior to the execution of any such supplemental indenture) with respect thereto.
 
Section 12.9           Notice to Holders Prior to Certain Actions.
 
In case:
 
(a)           the Company shall declare a dividend (or any other distribution) on its Common Stock that would require an adjustment in the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 12.4; or
 
(b)           the Company shall authorize the granting to all of the holders of its Common Stock of rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase any share of any class or any other rights or warrants; or
 
(c)           of any reclassification of the Common Stock of the Company (other than a subdivision or combination of its outstanding Common Stock, or a change in par value, or from par value to no par value, or from no par value to par value), or of any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and for which approval of any shareholders of the Company is required, or of the sale or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; or
 
(d)           of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the Company;
 
the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and to be mailed to each Holder at his address appearing on the registration books of the Registrar, as promptly as possible but in any event at least 20 days prior to the applicable date specified in clause (x) or (y) below, as the case may be, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution or rights or warrants, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution or rights are to be determined, or (y) the date on which such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up is expected to become effective or occur, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend, distribution, reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, transfer, dissolution, liquidation or winding-up.
 
Section 12.10         Shareholder Rights Plans. Upon conversion of the Securities, the Holders shall receive, in addition to any shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion, the associated rights issued under the Rights Plan or under any future shareholder rights plan the Company adopts unless, prior to conversion, the rights have separated from the Common Stock, expired, terminated or been redeemed or exchanged in accordance with the Rights Plan. If,
and only if, the holders receive rights under such shareholder rights plans as described in the preceding sentence upon conversion of their Securities, then no other adjustment pursuant to this Article XII shall be made in connection with such shareholder rights plans.
 
Section 13.1           Trust Indenture Act Controls.
 
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies, or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA Section 318(c), such section of the TIA shall control. If any provision of this Indenture expressly modifies or excludes any provision of the TIA that may be so modified or excluded, the Indenture provision so modifying or excluding such provision of the TIA shall be deemed to apply.
 
Section 13.2           Notices.
 
Any request, demand, authorization, notice, waiver, consent or communication shall be in writing and delivered in person, mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed as follows or transmitted by facsimile transmission (confirmed by guaranteed overnight courier) to the following facsimile numbers:
 
if to the Company:
 
Cameron International Corporation 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700 Houston, Texas 77027 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile No.: (713) 513-3456
 
if to the Trustee:
 
SunTrust Bank 25 Park Place, N.E. 24th Floor Atlanta, Georgia 30303 Attn: Corporate Trust Department Facsimile No.: (404) 588-7335
 
For delivery of Securities by Holders in accordance with Section 6.5 of this Indenture:
 
SunTrust Bank c/o SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Capital Markets 125 Broad Street, 3rd Floor New York, NY 10004 Attn: Randy Brougher Facsimile No.: (212) 801-2744
 
The Company or the Trustee by notice given to the other in the manner provided above may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
Any notice or communication given to a Securityholder shall be mailed to the Securityholder, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, at the Securityholder' s address as it appears on the registration books of the Registrar and shall be sufficiently given if so mailed within the time prescribed.
Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Securityholder or any defect in it shall not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Securityholders. If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above, it is duly given, whether or not received by the addressee.
 
If the Company mails a notice or communication to the Securityholders, it shall mail a copy to the Trustee and each Registrar, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent or co-registrar.
 
Section 13.3           Communication by Holders with Other Holders.
 
Securityholders may communicate pursuant to TIA Section 312(b) with other Securityholders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Securities. The Company, the Trustee, the Registrar, the Paying Agent, the Conversion Agent and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA Section 312(c).
 
Section 13.4           Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent.
 
Upon any request or application by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee, if the Trustee so requests:
 
(a)           an Officers' Certificate stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with; and
 
(b)           an Opinion of Counsel stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent have been complied with.
 
Section 13.5           Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion.
 
Each Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel with respect to compliance with a covenant or condition provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
(a)           a statement that each person making such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel has read such covenant or condition;
 
(b)           a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel are based;
 
(c)           a statement that, in the opinion of each such person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and has been complied with.
 
Section 13.6           Separability Clause.
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 13.7           Rules by Trustee, Paying Agent, Conversion Agent and Registrar.
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or a meeting of Securityholders. The Registrar, the Conversion Agent and the Paying Agent may make reasonable rules for their functions.
 
Section 13.8           Legal Holidays.
 
If any specified date (including a date for giving notice) is a Legal Holiday, the action shall be taken on the next succeeding day that is not a Legal Holiday, and, if the action to be taken on such date is a payment in respect of the Securities, no interest, if any, shall accrue for the intervening period.
Section 13.9           Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Service of Process.
 
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
The Company submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York and the courts of the United States of America, in each case located in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and State of New York over any suit, action or proceeding arising under or in connection with this Indenture or the transactions contemplated hereby or the Securities. The Company waives any objection that it may have to the venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising under or in connection with this Indenture or the transactions contemplated hereby or the Securities in the courts of the State of New York or the courts of the United States of America, in each case located in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York and State of New York, or that such suit, action or proceeding brought in the courts of the State of New York or the courts of the United States of America, in each case located in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York and State of New York, was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same.
 
Section 13.10         No Recourse Against Others.
 
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture, or in any Security, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, as such, or against any past, present or future stockholder, officer or director, as such, of the Company or of any successor, either directly or through the Company or any successor, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the Securities by the Holders and as part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
Section 13.11         Successors.
 
All agreements of the Company in this Indenture and the Securities shall bind its successor. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture shall bind its successor.
 
Section 13.12         Multiple Originals.
 
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Indenture.
 
Section 13.13         Benefits of Indenture.
 
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and the Holders of the Securities, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture or the Securities.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized, have executed this Indenture on behalf of the respective parties hereto as of the date first above written.
 
SCHEDULE A
 
 
[UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (AND ANY PAYMENT HEREON IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. THIS SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS SECURITY IS EXCHANGEABLE FOR SECURITIES REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE DEPOSITARY OR ITS NOMINEE ONLY IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE AND, UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR SECURITIES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY.](1)
 
[THIS SECURITY (OR ITS PREDECESSOR) WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND THIS SECURITY AND THE COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION HEREOF MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER OF THIS SECURITY MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, THAT (A) THIS SECURITY AND THE COMMON STOCK ISSUABLE UPON CONVERSION HEREOF MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) TO CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (II) IN THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (III) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR THAT, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISHES TO SUNTRUST BANK, AS TRUSTEE (OR A SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE, AS APPLICABLE), A SIGNED LETTER CONTAINING CERTAIN REPRESENTATIONS AND AGREEMENTS RELATING TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF THE SECURITIES (THE FORM OF WHICH LETTER CAN BE OBTAINED FROM SUCH TRUSTEE OR SUCCESSOR TRUSTEE, AS APPLICABLE), (IV) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (V) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE) OR (VI) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (VI) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE. IN ANY CASE, THE HOLDER HEREOF WILL NOT, DIRECTLY OR
 
(1)           This legend should be included only if the Security is a Global Security.
INDIRECTLY, ENGAGE IN ANY HEDGING TRANSACTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SECURITIES EXCEPT AS PERMITTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT(2)]
 
[THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY IS ENTITLED TO THE BENEFITS OF A REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (AS SUCH TERM IS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF) AND, BY ITS ACCEPTANCE HEREOF, AGREES TO BE BOUND BY AND TO COMPLY WITH THE PROVISIONS OF SUCH REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT.](3)
 
(2)           This legend should be included only if the Security is a Transfer Restricted Security.
(3)           This legend should be included only if the Security is a Transfer Restricted Security.
 
Issue Date: Principal Amount: $
 
CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the "", which term shall include any successor corporation under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof), promises to pay to                                     or registered assigns, the principal amount of                    Dollars ($ ) [or such lesser amount as is indicated in the records of the Trustee and the Depositary,](4) on June 15, 2026, and to pay interest thereon from May 26, 2006 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, on June 15 and December 15 in each year (each, an ""), commencing on December 15, 2006, at the rate of 2.50% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment at June 15, 2026 or upon acceleration, or until such date on which the Securities are converted, redeemed or repurchased as provided herein, and at the rate of 2.50% per annum on any overdue principal and on any overdue installment of interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture (as hereinafter defined), be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the regular record date for such interest, which will be the June 1 or December 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding the corresponding Interest Payment Date (a ""). Any such interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may be paid (a) to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date for the payment of such defaulted interest to be fixed by the Trustee (a ""), notice thereof will be given to Holders not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or (b) at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
Company
Interest Payment Date
Regular Record Date
Special Record Date
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse side of this Security, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed. Dated:
 
May 26, 2006
 
 
 
(4)           This phrase should be included only if the Security is a Global Security.
This is one of the Securities referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated: May 26, 2006
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the "") of CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (including any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to, the ""), issued under an Indenture, dated as of May 26, 2006 (the ""), between the Company and SunTrust Bank, as trustee (the ""). The terms of the Security include those stated in the Indenture, those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (""), and those set forth in this Security. This Security is subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and the TIA for a statement of all such terms. To the extent permitted by applicable law, in the event of any inconsistency between the terms of this Security and the terms of the Indenture, the terms of the Indenture shall control. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
Securities
Company
Indenture
Trustee
TIA
 
1.             Interest.
 
Interest on the Securities shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
If this Security is redeemed pursuant to Section 5 of this Security or the Holder elects to require the Company to repurchase this Security pursuant to Section 6 of this Security, on a date that is after the Regular Record Date and prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date, interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, accrued and unpaid hereon to, but not including, the applicable Redemption Date, Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date will be paid to the same Holder to whom the Company pays the principal of such Security regardless of whether such Holder was the registered Holder on the Regular Record Date immediately preceding the applicable Redemption Date, Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date.
 
Interest on Securities converted after the close of business on a Regular Record Date but prior to the opening of business on the corresponding Interest Payment Date will be paid to the Holder of the Securities on the Regular Record Date but, upon conversion, the Holder must pay the Company the interest which has accrued and will be paid on such Interest Payment Date. No such payment need be made with respect to Securities which will be converted after a Regular Record Date and prior to the corresponding Interest Payment Date if (i) the Company has specified a Redemption Date during the period from the close of business on any record date preceding any Interest Payment Date through and including such Interest Payment Date (ii) the Company has specified a Fundamental Change Repurchase Date following a Fundamental Change Event that is during the period from the close of business on any record date preceding any Interest Payment Date through and including such Interest Payment Date, or (iii) any overdue interest exists at the time of conversion with respect to the Securities converted, but only to the extent of the amount of such overdue interest, or (iv) such Interest Payment Date is the final Interest Payment Date.
 
Upon conversion of this Security, the Company will pay accrued and unpaid Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, to but not including the date of conversion to the Holder delivering the Security for conversion.
 
Except as otherwise stated herein, any reference herein to interest accrued or payable as of any date shall include any Liquidated Damages Amount accrued or payable on such date as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
2.             Method of Payment.
 
Payment of the principal of and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on the Securities shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, as permitted in the Indenture. The Holder must surrender the Securities to the Paying Agent to collect payment of principal. Payment of interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on Certificated Securities will be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address appears in the
Register. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as the Securities are registered in the name of a Depositary or its nominee, all payments with respect to the Securities shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account of the Depositary or its nominee.
 
3.             Paying Agent, Registrar and Conversion Agent.
 
Initially, SunTrust Bank will act as Paying Agent and Conversion Agent. The Company may appoint and change any Paying Agent, Registrar or Conversion Agent without notice, other than notice to the Trustee; provided that the Company will maintain at least one Paying Agent in the State of New York, The City of New York, Borough of Manhattan, which shall initially be an office or agency of the Trustee. The Company or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their Affiliates may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or Conversion Agent.
 
4.             Indenture.
 
The Securities are general unsecured obligations of the Company. The Indenture does not limit the amount of the Securities or other indebtedness of the Company, secured or unsecured.
 
5.             Redemption at the Option of the Company.
 
The Company may, at its option, redeem the Securities for cash at any time as a whole, or from time to time in part, on or after June 20, 2011, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed plus any accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on those Securities to, but not including, the Redemption Date.
 
Notice of redemption pursuant to this Section of this Security will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed at the Holder's registered address. If cash sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of all Securities (or portions thereof) to be redeemed on the Redemption Date is deposited with the Paying Agent prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Redemption Date, then on such Redemption Date interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, cease to accrue on such Securities or portions thereof. Securities in denominations larger than $1,000 of principal amount may be redeemed in part but only in multiples of $1,000 of principal amount.
 
6.             Repurchase By the Company at the Option of the Holder or Upon a Fundamental Change.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to repurchase, at the option of the Holder, all or any portion of the Securities held by such Holder on June 15, 2011, June 15, 2016 and June 15, 2021 in multiples of $l,000 at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of those Securities plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, to, but not including, such Repurchase Date. To exercise such right, a Holder shall deliver to the Paying Agent a Repurchase Notice containing the information set forth in the Indenture, at any time from 9:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date that is 20 Business Days immediately preceding such Repurchase Date until 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding such Repurchase Date, and shall deliver the Securities to the Paying Agent as set forth in the Indenture.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Indenture, the Company shall become obligated to repurchase, at the option of the Holder, all or any portion of the Securities held by such Holder upon a Fundamental Change in multiples of $1,000 at the Fundamental Change Repurchase Price. To exercise such right, a Holder shall deliver to the Paying Agent a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice containing the information set forth in the Indenture, at any time prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately preceding the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, and shall deliver the Securities to the Paying Agent as set forth in the Indenture.
 
Holders have the right to withdraw any Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice by delivering to the Paying Agent a written notice of withdrawal in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture.
If cash sufficient to pay the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, as the case may be, of all Securities or portions thereof to be repurchased with respect to a Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, has been deposited with the Paying Agent, at 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as the case may be, then, immediately after the Repurchase Date or Fundamental Change Repurchase Date, as applicable, such Securities will cease to be outstanding and interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on such Securities will cease to accrue and the Holder thereof shall have no other rights as such other than the right to receive the Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price upon surrender of such Security.
 
7.             Conversion.
 
Subject to and in compliance with the provisions of the Indenture (including, without limitation, the conditions to conversion of this Security set forth in Section 12.1 thereof), a Holder is entitled, at such Holder's option, to convert the Holder's Security (or any portion of the principal amount thereof that is $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000), into cash and, to the extent the Conversion Value of such Security is greater than $1,000, cash, fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, at the option of the Company as described in the Indenture.
 
A Security in respect of which a Holder has delivered a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice, as the case may be, exercising the right of such Holder to require the Company to repurchase such Security may be converted only if such Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice is withdrawn in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
The initial Conversion Rate is 14.1328 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Securities, subject to adjustment in certain events described in the Indenture.
 
To surrender a Security for conversion, a Holder must, (1) in the case of Global Securities, comply with the Applicable Procedures of the Depositary in effect at that time, and, if required, pay funds equal to the interest payable on the next Interest Payment Date to which the Holder hereof is not entitled under the Indenture and, if required, pay all taxes or duties, if any, and (2) in the case of Certificated Securities, (i) surrender the Security to the Conversion Agent duly endorsed to the Company or in blank, (ii) complete and manually sign the conversion notice below (or complete and manually sign a facsimile of such notice) and deliver such notice to the Conversion Agent, (iii) if required, pay funds equal to the interest payable on the next Interest Payment Date to which the Holder hereof is not entitled under the Indenture, and (iv) if required, pay all taxes and duties, if any.
 
No fractional share of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of any Security. Instead, the Company shall pay a cash adjustment as provided in the Indenture.
 
No payment or adjustment will be made for accrued and unpaid interest or dividends on the shares of Common Stock, except as provided in the Indenture. Accrued and unpaid Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, to but not including the date of conversion shall be paid to the Holder that delivers the Security for conversion.
 
If the Company (i) is a party to a consolidation, merger, statutory share exchange or combination of the Company with another corporation as a result of which all the holders of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive stock, securities or other property or assets (including cash or a combination thereof) with respect to or in exchange for all of their Common Stock, (ii) reclassifies or changes the shares of Common Stock or (iii) conveys, transfers or leases its properties and assets as, or substantially as, an entirety to any person, the right to convert a Security into cash and shares of Common Stock, if any, may be changed to a right to convert a Security into cash and the kind and amount of shares of stock and other securities or property or assets, if any, which such Holder would have been entitled to receive upon such reclassification, change, merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange, combination, sale or conveyance had such Holder converted its Security into Common Stock immediately prior to such transaction, in each case, in accordance with the Indenture.
8.             Denominations; Transfer; Exchange.
 
The Securities are in fully registered form, without coupons, in denominations of $1,000 of principal amount and multiples of $1,000. A Holder may transfer or exchange Securities in accordance with the Indenture. The Registrar may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Registrar need not transfer or exchange any Securities selected for redemption (except, in the case of a Security to be redeemed in part, the portion of the Security not to be redeemed) or any Securities in respect of which a Repurchase Notice or Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice has been given and not withdrawn (except, in the case of a Security to be repurchased in part, the portion of the Security not to be repurchased) or any Securities for a period of 15 days before the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed.
 
9.             Persons Deemed Owners.
 
The registered Holder of this Security may be treated as the owner of this Security for all purposes. Notwithstanding anything else herein contained, neither the Company nor the Trustee shall have any responsibility or obligation with respect to (a) the accuracy of the records of any Depositary or any other person with respect to any ownership interest in the Global Securities, (b) the delivery to any person, other than a Holder, of any notice with respect to the Global Securities, including any notice of redemption or refunding, (c) the selection of the particular portions of Global Securities to be redeemed or refunded in the event of a partial redemption or refunding of part of the Outstanding Securities or (d) the payment to any person, other than a Holder, of any amount with respect to (i) the principal of, redemption premium, if any, or interest on the Global Securities, (ii) any Repurchase Price or Fundamental Change Repurchase Price, or (iii) any Liquidated Damages Amount.
 
10.           Unclaimed Money or Securities.
 
The Trustee and the Paying Agent shall return to the Company upon written request any cash or securities held by them for the payment of any amount with respect to the Securities that remains unclaimed for two years, subject to applicable unclaimed property law. After return to the Company, Holders entitled to the money or securities must look to the Company for payment as general creditors unless an applicable abandoned property law designates another person.
 
11.           Amendment; Waiver.
 
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Indenture, (i) the Indenture or the Securities may be amended with the written consent or affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities and (ii) certain Defaults may be waived with the written consent or affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Securities.
 
Without the consent of any Securityholder, the Company and the Trustee may amend the Indenture or the Securities to (i) provide for the assumption of the Company's obligations to the Holders of Securities in the case of a merger, consolidation, conveyance, transfer, sale, lease or other disposition pursuant to Article VII of the Indenture, (ii) add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of Securities, (iii) surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company in the Indenture, (iv) provide for a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities, (v) provide for issuance of the Securities in coupon form, (vi) make provision with respect to the conversion rights of Holders of the Securities in accordance with the Indenture in connection with a reclassification, consolidation, combination, merger or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's property and assets, (vii) cure any ambiguity, correct or supplement any provision in the Indenture which may be inconsistent with any other provision therein or which is otherwise defective, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Indenture which the Company may deem necessary or desirable and which shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of the Indenture; , that such action pursuant to this clause does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities; and further provided, however that any change to conform the Indenture to the description of the Securities contained in any offering memorandum or registration statement with respect to the Securities shall be deemed not to adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities, (viii) add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any of the Securities, (ix) secure the Securities, (x) increase the Conversion Rate or reduce the Conversion Price; , that such increase in the Conversion Rate or reduction in the Conversion Price is in accordance with the terms of the Indenture or shall not adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Securities, (xi) supplement any of the provisions of the Indenture
provided, however
provided, however
to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the discharge of the Securities, provided that such change or modification does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Securities, (xii) make any changes or modifications necessary in connection with the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act as contemplated in the Registration Rights Agreement; , that such action pursuant to this clause does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities in any material respect, (xiii) make any changes or modifications necessary to comply with the requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the TIA, and (xiv) add or modify any other provisions in the Indenture with respect to matters or questions arising thereunder which the Company and the Trustee may deem necessary or desirable and which would not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities.
provided, however
 
12.           Defaults and Remedies.
 
If any Event of Default other than as a result of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company or its Significant Subsidiaries occurs and is continuing, the principal of all the Securities may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. If an Event of Default occurs as a result of certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization of the Company or its Significant Subsidiaries, the principal of all the Securities shall become due and payable immediately without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder, all as and to the extent provided in the Indenture.
 
13.           Trustee Dealings with the Company.
 
Subject to certain limitations imposed by the TIA, the Trustee under the Indenture, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and may otherwise deal with and collect obligations owed to it by the Company or its Affiliates and may otherwise deal with the Company or its Affiliates with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee.
 
14.           Calculations in Respect of Securities.
 
The Company or its agents will be responsible for making all calculations called for under the Securities including, but not limited to, determination of the Trading Price of the Securities, Last Reported Sale Price, number of shares of Common Stock or Reference Property issuable upon conversion, if any, and the amounts of interest and Liquidated Damages Amount, if any, on the Securities. Any calculations made in good faith and without manifest error will be final and binding on Holders of the Securities. The Company or its agents will be required to deliver to the Trustee a schedule of its calculations and the Trustee will be entitled to conclusively rely upon the accuracy of such calculations without independent verification. The Trustee has no duty to determine when such calculations should be made, how they should be made or what the calculations should be and shall not suffer any liability as a result thereof.
 
15.           No Recourse Against Others.
 
No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement contained in the Indenture, or in this Security, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any incorporator, as such, or against any past, present or future stockholder, officer or director, as such, of the Company or of any successor, either directly or through the Company or any successor, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the Securities by the Holders and as part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
 
16.           Authentication.
 
This Security shall not be valid until an authorized signatory of the Trustee manually signs the Trustee's Certificate of Authentication on the other side of this Security.
17.           Abbreviations.
 
Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Securityholder or an assignee, such as TEN COM (=tenants in common), TEN ENT (=tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (=joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (=custodian), and U/G/M/A (=Uniform Gift to Minors Act).
 
18.           INDENTURE TO CONTROL; GOVERNING LAW.
 
IN THE CASE OF ANY CONFLICT BETWEEN THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECURITY AND THE INDENTURE, THE . THE INDENTURE AND THIS SECURITY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
PROVISIONS OF THE INDENTURE SHALL CONTROL
 
The Company will furnish to any Securityholder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture. Requests may be made to:
 
Cameron International Corporation 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700 Houston, Texas 77027 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile No.: (713) 513-3456
 
19.           Registration Rights.(5)
 
The Holders of the Securities are entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of May 26, 2006, between the Company and the Initial Purchasers named therein, including, in certain circumstances, the receipt of Liquidated Damages Amount upon a registration default (as defined in such agreement).
 
 
(5)           This section shall be deleted from any Securities that are not Transfer Restricted Securities.
To assign this Security, fill in the form below:
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to
 
and irrevocably appoint agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
                   
;
To convert this Security into shares of Common Stock of the Company, check the box
o
 
To convert only part of this Security, state the principal amount to be converted (which must be $1,000 or a multiple of $1,000):
 
If you want the stock certificate made out in another person's name fill in the form below:
 
This certificate relates to $            principal amount of Securities owned in (check applicable box)
 
 
The Transferor has requested a Registrar or the Trustee to exchange or register the transfer of such Securities.
 
In connection with such request and in respect of each such Security, the Transferor does hereby certify that the Transferor is familiar with transfer restrictions relating to the Securities as provided in Sections 2.6 and 2.12 of the Indenture dated May 26, 2006 between the Company and SunTrust Bank, as trustee (the ""), and the transfer of such Security is being made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or the transfer or exchange, as the case may be, of such Security does not require registration under the Securities Act because (check applicable box):
Indenture
Securities Act
 
Such Security is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act; or Such Security is being transferred to the Company or a Subsidiary; or
o
                                   
 
Such Security is being transferred inside the United States to a "qualified institutional buyer" in compliance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act; or
o
                                   
 
Such Security is being transferred inside the United Stated to an "institutional accredited investor" that prior to such transfer has furnished to SunTrust Bank as Trustee (or a successor trustee, as applicable) a signed letter containing certain representations and agreements relating to the restrictions on transfer of the Securities (in the form obtained from such Trustee or successor trustee, as applicable); or
o
                                   
 
Such Security is being transferred outside the United States in compliance with Rule 904 under the Securities Act; or
o
                                   
 
Such Security is being transferred pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144 (or any successor thereto) under the Securities Act; or
o
                                   
 
Such Security is being acquired for the Transferor's own account, without transfer;
o
                                   
 
 
(6)           This certificate should only be included if this Security is a Transfer Restricted Security.
and unless the Such Security is being transferred to the Company or a Subsidiary box is checked, the undersigned confirms that such Security is not being transferred to an "affiliate" of the Company as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act.
 
[THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT"), AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, THAT (A) THIS SECURITY MAY BE OFFERED, RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (I) TO CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (II) IN THE UNITED STATES TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (III) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR THAT, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISHES TO EQUISERVE TRUST COMPANY N.A., AS TRANSFER AGENT (OR A SUCCESSOR TRANSFER AGENT, AS APPLICABLE), A SIGNED LETTER CONTAINING CERTAIN REPRESENTATIONS AND AGREEMENTS RELATING TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF THE SECURITIES (THE FORM OF WHICH LETTER CAN BE OBTAINED FROM SUCH TRANSFER AGENT OR A SUCCESSOR TRANSFER AGENT, AS APPLICABLE), (IV) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (V) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE) OR (VI) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH OF CASES (I) THROUGH (VI) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES, AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE. IN ANY CASE, THE HOLDER HEREOF WILL NOT, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ENGAGE IN ANY HEDGING TRANSACTIONS WITH REGARD TO THE SECURITIES EXCEPT AS PERMITTED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.]
             , 200  
 
[address]
 
Cameron International Corporation (the "") 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026
Re:
                              
Company
 
This is a Repurchase Notice as defined in Section 4.1 of the Indenture dated as of May 26, 2006 (the "") between the Company and SunTrust Bank, as Trustee. Terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
 
Certificate No(s). of Securities:
 
I intend to deliver the following aggregate Principal Amount of Securities for purchase by the Company pursuant to Section 4.1 of the Indenture (in multiples of $1,000):
 
$
 
I hereby agree that the Securities will be purchased on the Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and the Indenture.
 
[address]
 
Cameron International Corporation (the "") 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026
Re:
                              
Company
 
This is a Fundamental Change Repurchase Notice as defined in Section 5.1 of the Indenture dated as of May 26, 2006 (the "") between the Company and SunTrust Bank, as Trustee. Terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
 
Certificate No(s). of Securities:
 
I intend to deliver the following aggregate Principal Amount of Securities for purchase by the Company pursuant to Section 5.1 of the Indenture (in multiples of $1,000):
 
$
 
I hereby agree that the Securities will be purchased on the Fundamental Change Repurchase Date pursuant to the terms and conditions specified in the Securities and the Indenture.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "") is made and entered into as of May 26, 2006, by and among Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. (collectively, the ""), pursuant to that certain Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 23, 2006 (the "") between the Company and the Initial Purchasers.
Agreement
Company
Initial Purchasers
Purchase Agreement
 
In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.  The execution of this Agreement is a condition to the closing under the Purchase Agreement.  The terms "herein," "hereof," "hereto," "hereinafter" and similar terms, as used in this Agreement, shall in each case refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular section, paragraph, sentence or other subdivision of this Agreement.
 
The Company agrees with the Initial Purchasers (i) for their benefit as Initial Purchasers and (ii) for the benefit of the beneficial owners (including the Initial Purchasers) from time to time of the Notes (as defined herein) and the beneficial owners from time to time of the Underlying Common Stock (as defined herein) issued upon conversion of the Notes (each of the foregoing a "" and together the ""), as follows:
Holder
Holders
 
.  Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have their respective meanings set forth in the Purchase Agreement.  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Section 1.
             
Definitions
 
"" means with respect to any specified person, an "affiliate," as defined in Rule 144, of such person.
(a)
          
Affiliate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(d) hereof.
(b)
          
Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date
 
"" has the meaning ascribed to it in Rule 405.
(c)
          
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" means each day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading.
(d)
          
Business Day
 
"" means the shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company and any other shares of capital stock as may constitute "Common Stock" for purposes of the Indenture, including the Underlying Common Stock.
(e)
          
Common Stock
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Indenture.
(f)
           
Conversion Rate
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
(g)
          
Damages Accrual Period
"" means each interest payment date under the Indenture in the case of Notes, and each June 15 and December 15 in case of the Underlying Common Stock.
(h)
          
Damages Payment Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in section 2(a) hereof.
(i)
           
Effectiveness Deadline Date
 
"" means a period of two years after the later of (1) the original issuance of the Notes and (2) the last date that the Company or any of its Affiliates was the owner of such Notes (or any predecessor thereto), or such shorter period of time (x) as permitted by Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or any successor provisions thereunder or (y) that will terminate when each of the Registrable Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be a Registrable Security.
(j)
           
Effectiveness Period
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.
(k)
          
Event
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.
(l)
           
Event Date
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
(m)
         
Exchange Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
(n)
          
Filing Deadline Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the third paragraph of this Agreement.
(o)
          
Holder
 
"" means the Indenture, dated as of May 26, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, pursuant to which the Notes are being issued.
(p)
          
Indenture
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
(q)
          
Initial Purchasers
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
(r)
           
Initial Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" means the first date of original issuance of the Notes.
(s)
          
Issue Date
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
(t)
           
Liquidated Damages Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(l) hereof.
(u)
          
Material Event
 
"" means the 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 of the Company to be purchased pursuant to the Purchase Agreement.
(v)
          
Notes
 
"" means a written notice and questionnaire delivered to the Company containing substantially the information called for by the Selling Securityholder Notice and Questionnaire attached as to the Offering Memorandum dated May 23, 2006 relating to the Notes.
(w)
         
Notice and Questionnaire
Annex A
"" means, on any date, any Holder that has delivered a Notice and Questionnaire to the Company on or prior to such date, so long as all of their Registrable Securities that have been registered for resale pursuant to a Notice and Questionnaire have not been sold in accordance with a Shelf Registration Statement.
(x)
           
Notice Holder
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereof.
(y)
          
Purchase Agreement
 
"" means each prospectus relating to any Shelf Registration Statement, including all supplements and amendments to such prospectus, in each case in the form furnished pursuant to this Agreement by the Company to Holders or filed by the Company with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424 or as part of such Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, and in each case including all materials, if any, incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such prospectus.
(z)
           
Prospectus
 
"" means (i) with respect to any Damages Payment Date relating to any Notes as to which any such Liquidated Damages Amount has accrued, the holder of record of such Note on the record date with respect to the interest payment date under the Indenture on which such Damages Payment Date shall occur and (ii) with respect to any Damages Payment Date relating to the Underlying Common Stock as to which any such Liquidated Damages Amount has accrued, the registered holder of such Underlying Common Stock fifteen (15) days prior to such Damages Payment Date.
(aa)
        
Record Holder
 
"" means the Notes until such Notes have been converted into the Underlying Common Stock and, at all times the Underlying Common Stock and any securities of the Company into or for which such Underlying Common Stock has been converted, and any security issued with respect thereto upon any stock dividend, split or similar event until, in the case of any such security, the earliest of (x) the date on which such security has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of, whether or not in accordance with the Shelf Registration Statement and (y) the date that is two years after the later of (1) the original issuance of the Notes and (2) the last date that the Company or any of its Affiliates was the owner of such Notes (or any predecessor thereto), or such shorter period of time as permitted by Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or any successor provisions thereunder.
(bb)
        
Registrable Securities
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 6 hereof.
(cc)
        
Registration Expenses
 
"" means each registration statement, under the Securities Act, of the Company that covers any of the Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including amendments and supplements to such registration statement and including all post-effective amendments to, all exhibits of, and all materials incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in, such registration statement, amendment or supplement. "Rule 144" means Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
(dd)
        
Registration Statement
 
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
(ee)
        
Rule 144A
"" means Rule 405 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
(ff)
          
Rule 405
 
"" means Rule 424 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
(gg)
        
Rule 424
 
"" means Rule 430B under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
(hh)
        
Rule 430B
 
"" means Rule 456 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
(ii)
          
Rule 456
 
"" means 457 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC.
(jj)
          
Rule 457
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(kk)
        
SEC
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.  "Shelf Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
(ll)
          
Securities Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
(mm)
      
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(l) hereof.
(nn)
        
Suspension Notice
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(l) hereof.
(oo)
        
Suspension Period
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
(pp)
        
TIA
 
" means SunTrust Bank, the Trustee under the Indenture.
(qq)
        
Trustee
 
"" means the Common Stock into which the Notes are convertible or issued upon any such conversion.
(rr)
          
Underlying Common Stock
 
Section 2.
             
Shelf Registration.
 
The Company shall prepare and file or cause to be prepared and filed with the SEC, as soon as practicable but in any event by the date (the "") that is ninety (90) days after the Issue Date, a Registration Statement for an offering to be made on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 of the Securities Act (a
(a)
          
Filing Deadline Date
"") registering the resale from time to time by Holders thereof of all of the Registrable Securities (the "").  The Initial Shelf Registration Statement shall be on Form S-1 or S-3 or another appropriate form permitting registration of such Registrable Securities for resale by such Holders in accordance with the reasonable methods of distribution elected by the Holders, approved by the Company, and set forth in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement.  The Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Initial Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as is practicable but in any event by the date (the "") that is two hundred ten (210) days after the Issue Date, and to keep the Initial Shelf Registration Statement (or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement) continuously effective under the Securities Act until the expiration of the Effectiveness Period.  At the time the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective, each Holder that became a Notice Holder on or prior to the date that is ten (10) Business Days prior to such time of effectiveness shall be named as a selling securityholder in the Initial Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Holder to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law.
Shelf Registration Statement
Initial Shelf Registration Statement
Effectiveness Deadline Date
 
If the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement ceases to be effective for any reason at any time during the Effectiveness Period, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the prompt withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness thereof, and in any event shall within thirty (30) days of such cessation of effectiveness amend the Shelf Registration Statement in a manner reasonably expected to obtain the withdrawal of the order suspending the effectiveness thereof, or file an additional Shelf Registration Statement covering all of the securities that as of the date of such filing are Registrable Securities (a "").  If a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement is filed, the Company shall use its best efforts to cause the Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement to become effective as promptly as is practicable after such filing and to keep such Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the end of the Effectiveness Period.
(b)
          
Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement
 
The Company shall supplement and amend the Shelf Registration Statement if required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Company for such Shelf Registration Statement, if required by the Securities Act or as reasonably requested by the Initial Purchasers or by the Trustee on behalf of the Holders of the Registrable Securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement.
(c)
          
 
Each Holder of Registrable Securities agrees that if such Holder wishes to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus, it will do so only in accordance with this Section 2(d) and Section 4(l).  Each Holder of Registrable Securities wishing to sell Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and related Prospectus agrees to deliver a completed and executed Notice and Questionnaire to the Company prior to any attempted or actual distribution of Registrable Securities under the Shelf Registration Statement; provided that Holders of Registrable Securities shall have at least twenty (20) Business Days from the date on
(d)
          
which the Notice and Questionnaire is first sent to such Holders by the Company to complete and return the Notice and Questionnaire to the Company.  From and after the date the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective, the Company shall, as promptly as practicable after the date a Notice and Questionnaire is delivered, and in any event within the later of (x) five (5) Business Days after such date or (y) five (5) Business Days after the expiration of any Suspension Period (1) in effect when the Notice and Questionnaire is delivered or (2) put into effect within five (5) Business Days of such delivery date, (i) if required by applicable law, file with the SEC a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement or, if required by applicable law, prepare and file a supplement to the related Prospectus or a supplement or amendment to any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire is named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus in such a manner as to permit such Holder to deliver such Prospectus to purchasers of the Registrable Securities in accordance with applicable law and, if the Company shall file a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its best efforts to cause such post-effective amendment to be declared effective under the Securities Act as promptly as is practicable, but in any event by the date (the "") that is thirty (30) days after the date such post-effective amendment is required by this clause to be filed; (ii) provide such Holder a reasonable number of copies of any documents filed pursuant to Section 2(d)(i); and (iii) notify such Holder as promptly as practicable after the effectiveness under the Securities Act of any post-effective amendment filed pursuant to Section 2(d)(i); provided, however, that notwithstanding the foregoing the Company shall not be required to take such actions set forth in clause (i) above until ninety (90) days after the date a prior Shelf Registration Statement filed pursuant to a request by Holders of Registrable Securities is declared effective; provided, that if such Notice and Questionnaire is delivered during a Suspension Period, or a Suspension Period is put into effect within five (5) Business Days after such delivery date, the Company shall so inform the Holder delivering such Notice and Questionnaire and shall take the actions set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above within five (5) Business Days after expiration of the Suspension Period in accordance with Section 4(l); provided further that if under applicable law, the Company has more than one option as to the type or manner of making any such filing, the Company shall make the required filing or filings in the manner or of a type that is reasonably expected to result in the earliest availability of the Prospectus for effecting resales of Registrable Securities.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Company shall be under no obligation to name any Holder that is not a Notice Holder as a selling securityholder in any Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus; provided, however, that any Holder that becomes a Notice Holder pursuant to the provisions of this Section 2(d) (whether or not such Holder was a Notice Holder at the time the Shelf Registration Statement was declared effective) shall be named as a selling securityholder in the Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus in accordance with the requirements of this Section 2(d).
Amendment Effectiveness Deadline Date
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall not be required to cause any Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act at any time during which there exists a Material Event that
(e)
          
would give rise to the issuance by the Company of a Suspension Notice if such Shelf Registration Statement had been declared effective under the Securities Act; provided, however, that the Company will remain subject to the liquidated damages provisions contained in Section 3 hereto.
 
Section 3.
             
Liquidated Damages.
 
The parties hereto agree that the Holders of Notes that are Registrable Securities ("") will suffer damages, and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages with precision, if (i) the Initial Shelf Registration Statement has not been filed on or prior to the Filing Deadline Date, (ii) the Initial Shelf Registration Statement has not been declared effective under the Securities Act on or prior to the Effectiveness Deadline Date or (iii) the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or any Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter cease to be effective (without being succeeded immediately by an additional registration statement filed and declared effective) or usable for the offer and sale of Registrable Notes for a period of time (including any Suspension Period) which shall exceed forty-five (45) days in the aggregate in any three (3) month period or ninety (90) days in the aggregate in any twelve (12) month period (each of the events of a type described in any of the foregoing clauses (i) through (iii) are individually referred to herein as an "," and the Filing Deadline Date in the case of clause (i), the Effectiveness Deadline Date in the case of clause (ii), the date on which the duration of the ineffectiveness or unusability of the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement in any period exceeds the number of days permitted by clause (iii) hereof in the case of clause (iii), being referred to herein as an "").  Events shall be deemed to continue until the following dates with respect to the respective types of Events: the date the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is filed in the case of an Event of the type described in clause (i), the date the Initial Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective under the Securities Act in the case of an Event of the type described in clause (ii), and the date the Initial Shelf Registration Statement or Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement becomes effective or usable again in the case of an Event of the type described in clause (iii).
(a)
          
Registrable Notes
Event
Event Date
 
Accordingly, commencing on (and including) any Event Date and ending on (but excluding) the next date on which there are no Events that have occurred and are continuing (a ""), the Company agrees to pay, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, an amount (the "") at the rate described below, payable periodically on each Damages Payment Date to Record Holders of Registrable Notes to the extent of, for each such Damages Payment Date, accrued and unpaid Liquidated Damages Amount to (but excluding) such Damages Payment Date (or, if the Damages Accrual Period shall have ended prior to such Damages Payment Date, the date of the end of the Damages Accrual Period); provided that any Liquidated Damages Amount accrued with respect to any Note or portion thereof called for redemption on a redemption date or converted into Underlying Common Stock on a conversion date prior to the Damages Payment Date, shall, in any such event, be paid instead to the Holder who submitted such Note or portion thereof for redemption or conversion on the applicable redemption date or conversion date, as the case may be, on
(b)
          
Damages Accrual Period
Liquidated Damages Amount
such date (or promptly following the conversion date, in the case of conversion).  The Liquidated Damages Amount shall accrue at a rate per annum equal to one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) for the first 90-day period from the Event Date, and thereafter at a rate per annum equal to one-half of one percent (0.50%), of the principal amount of such Registrable Notes.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Liquidated Damages Amounts shall accrue as to any Registrable Note from and after the earlier of (x) the date such Note is no longer a Registrable Security and (y) expiration of the Effectiveness Period.  The rate of accrual of the Liquidated Damages Amount with respect to any period shall not exceed the rate provided for in this paragraph notwithstanding the occurrence of multiple concurrent Events.  Following the cure of all Events requiring the payment by the Company of Liquidated Damages Amounts to the Holders of Registrable Notes pursuant to this Section, the accrual of Liquidated Damages Amounts shall cease (without in any way limiting the effect of any subsequent Event requiring the payment of Liquidated Damages Amount by the Company).
 
So long as Notes remain outstanding, the Company shall notify the Trustee within two Business Days after each and every date on which an Event occurs in respect of which Liquidated Damages are required to be paid.  Any amounts of Liquidated Damages due pursuant to Section 3(b) will be payable in cash semi-annually on each June 15 and December 15, commencing with the first such date occurring after any such Liquidated Damages commences to accrue, to Holders to whom regular interest is payable on such Damages Payment Date with respect to Registrable Notes.
(c)
          
 
The Trustee shall be entitled, on behalf of Holders of Notes, to seek any available remedy for the enforcement of this Agreement, including for the payment of any Liquidated Damages Amount.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties agree that the sole damages payable for a violation of the terms of this Agreement with respect to which liquidated damages are expressly provided shall be such liquidated damages.
(d)
          
 
All of the Company's obligations set forth in this Section 3 that are outstanding with respect to any Registrable Note at the time such Note ceases to be a Registrable Security shall survive until such time as all such obligations with respect to such Note have been satisfied in full (notwithstanding termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 9(l)).
(e)
          
 
The parties hereto agree that the liquidated damages provided for in this Section 3 constitute a reasonable estimate of the damages that may be incurred by Holders of Registrable Notes by reason of the failure of the Shelf Registration Statement to be filed or declared effective or available for effecting resales of Registrable Notes in accordance with the provisions hereof.
(f)
           
 
In connection with the registration obligations of the Company under Section 2 hereof, the Company shall:
Section 4.
             
Registration Procedures
. 
 
Prepare and file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement in the manner provided in this agreement and use its best efforts to cause each such Shelf Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective as provided herein;
(a)
          
under the Securities Act in the manner contemplated by Rule 430B(d).
Each Registration Statement that is or is required by this Agreement to be filed with the SEC shall be filed on Form S-3 if the Company is then eligible to use Form S-3 for the purposes contemplated by this Agreement, or, if the Company is not then so eligible to use Form S-3, shall be on Form S-1 or another appropriate form that is then available to the Company for the purposes contemplated by this Agreement.  Each such Registration Statement that is filed on Form S-3 shall constitute an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement if the Company is then eligible to file an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement on Form S-3 for the purposes contemplated by this Agreement.  If, at the time any Registration Statement is filed with the SEC, the Company is eligible, pursuant to Rule 430B(b), to omit, from the prospectus that is filed as part of such Registration Statement, the identities of selling securityholders and amounts of securities to be registered on their behalf, then the Company shall prepare and file such Registration Statement in a manner as to permit such omission and to allow for the subsequent filing of such information in a prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) 
provided that before filing any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto with the SEC, the Company shall furnish to the Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) copies of all such documents proposed to be filed at least five (5) Business Days prior to such filing and use its best efforts to reflect in each such document when so filed with the SEC such comments as such counsel reasonably shall propose.  The Company shall not file any Registration Statement or prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto if the Holders of a majority in Amount of Registrable Securities covered by such Registration Statement shall reasonably object. 
 
Prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Shelf Registration Statement as may be necessary to keep such Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective until the expiration of the Effectiveness Period; cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any required Prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) under the Securities Act; and use its best efforts to comply with the provisions of the Securities Act applicable to it with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Shelf Registration Statement during the Effectiveness Period in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the sellers thereof set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement as so amended or such Prospectus as so supplemented.  Subject to Section 3(a), the Company shall be deemed not to have used its best efforts to keep a Shelf Registration Statement effective during the Effectiveness Period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in selling Holders of the Registrable Securities covered thereby not being able to sell such Registrable Securities during that period unless such action is required by applicable law or unless the Company complies with this Agreement, including without limitation the provisions of Section 4(l).
(b)
          
 
If the third anniversary of the initial effective date of any Registration Statement (within the meaning of Rule 415(a)(5) under the Securities Act) shall occur at any time during the Effectiveness Period, file with the SEC, prior to such third anniversary, a new Registration Statement covering the Registrable Securities, in the manner contemplated by, and in compliance with, Rule 415(a)(6), and use its best efforts
(c)
          
to cause such new Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable, but in any event within 180 days after such third anniversary.  Each such new Registration Statement, if any, shall be deemed, for purposes of this Agreement, to be a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement.
 
If, at any time during the Effectiveness Period, any Registration Statement shall cease to comply with the requirements of the Securities Act with respect to eligibility for the use of the form on which such Registration Statement was filed with the SEC (or if such Registration Statement constituted an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement at the time it was filed with the SEC and shall thereafter cease to constitute an Automatic Shelf Registration Statement, or if the Company shall have received, from the SEC, a notice, pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act, of objection to the use of the form on which such Registration Statement was filed with the SEC), (i) promptly give notice to the Notice Holders and counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) and to the Initial Purchasers and (ii) promptly file with the SEC a new Registration Statement under the Securities Act, or a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement, to effect compliance with the Securities Act.  The Company shall use its best efforts to cause such new Registration Statement or post-effective amendment to become effective under the Securities Act as soon as practicable and shall promptly give notice of such effectiveness to the Notice Holders and counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) and to the Initial Purchasers.  Each such new Registration Statement, if any, shall be deemed, for purposes of this Agreement, to be a Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement.
(d)
          
 
As promptly as practicable give notice to the Notice Holders, the Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) (i) when any Prospectus, Prospectus supplement, Shelf Registration Statement or post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement has been filed with the SEC and, with respect to a Shelf Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has been declared effective, (ii) of any request, following the effectiveness of the Initial Shelf Registration Statement under the Securities Act, by the SEC or any other federal or state governmental authority for amendments or supplements to any Shelf Registration Statement or related Prospectus or for additional information, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any other federal or state governmental authority of any stop order or other order suspending the effectiveness of any Shelf Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or other Prospectus or the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (v) after the effective date of any Shelf Registration Statement filed pursuant to this Agreement of the occurrence of (but not the nature of or details concerning) a Material Event, (vi) of the happening of any event, the existence of any condition or any information becoming known that makes any statement made in a Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in
(e)
          
or amendments or supplements to such Registration Statement, Prospectus or documents so that, in the case of the Registration Statement, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and that in the case of the Prospectus, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and (vii) of the determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement will be filed with the SEC, which notice may, at the discretion of the Company (or as required pursuant to Section 4(l)), state that it constitutes a Suspension Notice, in which event the provisions of Section 4(l) shall apply.
 
Use its best efforts to prevent the issuance of, and, if issued, to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of a Prospectus or the lifting of any suspension of the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Registrable Securities for sale in any jurisdiction in which they have been qualified for sale, in either case at the earliest possible moment, and provide prompt notice to each Notice Holder and the Initial Purchasers of the withdrawal of any such order.
(f)
           
 
If requested by the Initial Purchasers or any Notice Holder, as promptly as practicable incorporate in a Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement such information as the Initial Purchasers, such Notice Holder or counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) shall determine to be required to be included therein by applicable law and make any required filings of such Prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment; provided that the Company shall not be required to take any actions under this Section 4(g) that, in the written opinion of counsel for the Company, are not in compliance with applicable law.
(g)
          
 
As promptly as practicable furnish to each Notice Holder, counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) and the Initial Purchasers, without charge, at least one (1) conformed copy of the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, but excluding all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits (unless requested in writing to the Company by such Notice Holder, such counsel or the Initial Purchasers).
(h)
          
 
During the Effectiveness Period, deliver to each Notice Holder, counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) and the Initial Purchasers, in connection with any sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses relating to such Registrable Securities (including each preliminary prospectus) and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Notice Holder and the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request; and the Company hereby consents (except during such periods that a Suspension Notice is outstanding and has not been revoked) to the use of such Prospectus or each amendment or supplement thereto by each
(i)
           
Notice Holder, in connection with any offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by such Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in the manner set forth therein.
 
Prior to any public offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its best efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Notice Holders in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Registrable Securities for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any Notice Holder reasonably requests in writing (which request may be included in the Notice and Questionnaire); prior to any public offering of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, use its best efforts to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the Effectiveness Period in connection with such Notice Holder's offer and sale of Registrable Securities pursuant to such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Registrable Securities in the manner set forth in the relevant Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus; provided that the Company will not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Agreement or (ii) take any action that would subject it to general service of process in suits or to taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
(j)
           
 
Use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Registrable Securities covered by any Shelf Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be reasonably necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Securities, except as may be required solely as a consequence of the nature of such selling Holder's business, in which case the Company will cooperate in all reasonable respects with the filing of such Registration Statement and the granting of such approvals.
(k)
          
 
Upon (A) the issuance by the SEC of a stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement or the initiation of proceedings with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the Securities Act, (B) the occurrence of any event or the existence of any fact as a result of which any Shelf Registration Statement shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or any Prospectus shall contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (C) the occurrence or existence of any pending corporate development (a "") that, in the reasonable discretion of the Company, makes it appropriate to suspend the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and the related Prospectus (i) in the case of clause (B) or (C) above, subject to the next sentence, as promptly as practicable, prepare and file, if necessary pursuant to applicable law, a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document that
(l)
           
Material Event
would be incorporated by reference into such Shelf Registration Statement and Prospectus so that such Shelf Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and such Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that the Company may rely on information provided by each Notice Holder with respect to such Notice Holder), as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Securities being sold thereunder, and, in the case of a post-effective amendment to a Shelf Registration Statement, subject to the next sentence, use its best efforts to cause it to be declared effective as promptly as is practicable, and (ii) give notice to the Notice Holders and counsel for the Holders and for the Initial Purchasers (or, if applicable, separate counsel for the Holders) that the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement is suspended (a "") and, upon receipt of any Suspension Notice, each Notice Holder agrees not to sell any Registrable Securities pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement until such Notice Holder's receipt of copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus provided for in clause (i) above, or until it is advised in writing by the Company that the Prospectus may be used, and has received copies of any additional or supplemental filings that are incorporated or deemed incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.  The Company will use its best efforts to ensure that the use of the Prospectus may be resumed (x) in the case of clause (A) above, as promptly as is practicable, (y) in the case of clause (B) above, as soon as, in the reasonable judgment of the Company, the Shelf Registration Statement does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and the Prospectus does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and (z) in the case of clause (C) above, as soon as, in the reasonable discretion of the Company, such suspension is no longer appropriate.  The period during which the availability of the Shelf Registration Statement and any Prospectus may be suspended (the "") without the Company incurring any obligation to pay liquidated damages pursuant to Section 3 shall not exceed forty-five (45) days in any three (3) month period and ninety (90) days in any twelve (12) month period.
Suspension Notice
Suspension Period
 
Make available for inspection during normal business hours by representatives for the Notice Holders of such Registrable Securities, and any broker-dealers, attorneys and accountants retained by such Notice Holders, all relevant financial and other records and pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and its subsidiaries, and cause the appropriate officers, directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries to make available for inspection during normal business hours all relevant information reasonably requested by such representatives for the Notice Holders, or any such broker-dealers, attorneys or accountants in connection with such disposition, in each case as is customary for similar "due diligence" examinations; provided, however, that such persons shall, at the Company's request, first agree in writing with the Company that any information that is reasonably and in good faith designated by the Company in writing as confidential at the time of delivery of such
(m)
         
information shall be kept confidential by such persons and shall be used solely for the purposes of exercising rights under this Agreement, unless (i) disclosure of such information is required by court or administrative order or is necessary to respond to inquiries of regulatory authorities, (ii) disclosure of such information is required by law (including any disclosure requirements pursuant to federal securities laws in connection with the filing of any Shelf Registration Statement or the use of any Prospectus referred to in this Agreement), (iii) such information becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of a disclosure or failure to safeguard by any such person or (iv) such information becomes available to any such person from a source other than the Company and such source is not bound by a confidentiality agreement or is not otherwise under a duty of trust to the Company, and provided that the foregoing inspection and information gathering shall, to the greatest extent possible, be coordinated on behalf of all the Notice Holders and the other parties entitled thereto by the counsel referred to in Section 6.
 
Comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make generally available to its securityholders earning statements (which need not be audited) satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) no later than 45 days after the end of any 12-month period (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of the Company commencing after the effective date of a Shelf Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods.
(n)
          
 
Cooperate with each Notice Holder to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Securities sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends, and cause such Registrable Securities to be in such denominations as are permitted by the Indenture and registered in such names as such Notice Holder may request in writing at least (2) Business Days prior to any sale of such Registrable Securities.
(o)
          
 
Provide a CUSIP number for all Registrable Securities covered by each Shelf Registration Statement not later than the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement and provide the Trustee and the transfer agent for the Common Stock with certificates for the Registrable Securities that are in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
(p)
          
 
Cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
(q)
          
 
Upon (i) the filing of the Initial Registration Statement and (ii) the effectiveness of the Initial Registration Statement, announce the same, in each case by release to Reuters Economic Services, Dow Jones Corporation and Bloomberg Business News.
(r)
           
 
Enter into such customary agreements and take all such other necessary actions in connection therewith (including those requested by the holders of a majority of
(s)
          
the Registrable Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate disposition of such Registrable Securities.
 
Cause the Indenture to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of any Shelf Registration Statement; and in connection therewith, cooperate with the Trustee to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and execute, and use its best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner.
(t)
           
 
Each Holder agrees, by acquisition of the Registrable Securities, that no Holder of Registrable Securities shall be entitled to sell any of such Registrable Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement or to receive a Prospectus relating thereto, unless such Holder has furnished the Company with a Notice and Questionnaire as required pursuant to Section 2(d) hereof (including the information required to be included in such Notice and Questionnaire) and the information set forth in the next sentence.  Each Notice Holder agrees promptly to furnish to the Company all information required to be disclosed in order to make the information previously furnished to the Company by such Notice Holder not misleading and any other information regarding such Notice Holder and the distribution of such Registrable Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably request.  Any sale of any Registrable Securities by any Holder shall constitute a representation and warranty by such Holder that the information relating to such Holder and its plan of distribution is as set forth in the Prospectus delivered by such Holder in connection with such disposition, that such Prospectus does not as of the time of such sale contain any untrue statement of a material fact relating to or provided by such Holder or its plan of distribution and that such Prospectus does not as of the time of such sale omit to state any material fact relating to or provided by such Holder or its plan of distribution necessary in order to make the statements in such Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Section 5.
             
Holder's Obligations
. 
 
The Company shall bear all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement whether or not any of the Shelf Registration Statements are declared effective.  Such fees and expenses ("shall include, without limitation, (i) all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, fees and expenses (x) with respect to filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and (y) of compliance with federal and state securities or Blue Sky laws (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Holders in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Registrable Securities under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Notice Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement may designate), (ii) printing and word processing expenses (including, without limitation, expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Securities in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company), (iii) duplication and mailing expenses relating to copies of any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus delivered to any Holders hereunder, (iv) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses, (v) other expenses relating to the distribution of all Registration Statements, securities sales agreements and any other documents necessary in order to comply with this Agreement, (vi) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company
Section 6.
             
Registration Expenses
. 
Registration Expenses")
and the fees and disbursements of one counsel for the Holders in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement or Subsequent Shelf Registration Statement (which counsel shall be Baker Botts L.L.P. until another firm shall be designated pursuant to this Agreement), (vii) fees and disbursements of the Trustee and its counsel and of the registrar and transfer agent for the Common Stock and (viii) Securities Act liability insurance obtained by the Company in its sole discretion.  In addition, the Company shall pay the internal expenses of the Company (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expense of any annual audit, the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing by the Company of the Registrable Securities on any securities exchange on which similar securities of the Company are then listed and the fees and expenses of any person, including special experts, retained by the Company.  If the Company shall, pursuant to Rule 456(b), defer payment of any registration fees due under the Securities Act with respect to any Registration Statement, the Company agrees that it shall pay the fees applicable to such Registration Statement within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1)(i) (without reliance on the proviso to Rule 456(b)(1)(i)) and in compliance with Rule 456(b) and Rule 457(r).
 
Section 7.
             
Indemnification; Contribution.
 
The Company agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless each Holder and each person who controls any Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each a ""), from and against any loss, damage, expense, liability, judgment or claim (including reasonable legal fees, investigation costs and other expenses) which such Holder Indemnified Party may incur under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, insofar as such loss, damage, expense, liability, judgment or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary prospectus, or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated in any Shelf Registration Statement or in any amendment or supplement thereto or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made in any Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, except insofar as any such loss, damage, expense, liability, judgment or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission of a material fact contained in, or omitted from, and in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of any Holder to the Company expressly for use therein.
(a)
          
Holder Indemnified Party
 
Each Holder, severally and not jointly, agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company, its directors and officers and any person who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, a "") to the same extent as the foregoing indemnity from the Company to each Holder Indemnified Party, but only insofar as such loss, damage, expense, liability, judgment or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained
(b)
          
Company Indemnified Party
in information furnished in writing by or on behalf of such Holder to the Company expressly for use in any Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary prospectus, or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated in any Shelf Registration Statement or in any amendment or supplement thereto or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements in any Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in connection with such information.  In no event shall the liability of any selling Holder of Registrable Securities hereunder be greater in amount than the dollar amount of the proceeds received by such Holder upon the sale of the Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement giving rise to such indemnification obligation.
 
If any action, suit or proceeding (each, a "") is brought against any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 7, such person (the "") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing of the institution of such Proceeding and the Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense of such Proceeding; provided, however, that the omission to notify such Indemnifying Party shall not relieve such Indemnifying Party from any liability which it may have to such Indemnified Party or otherwise.  Such Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such case, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party unless the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by such Indemnifying Party in connection with the defense of such Proceeding or such Indemnifying Party shall not have employed counsel to have charge of the defense of such Proceeding within 30 days of the receipt of notice thereof or such Indemnified Party shall have reasonably concluded upon the written advice of counsel that there may be one or more defenses available to it that are different from, additional to or in conflict with those available to such Indemnifying Party (in which case such Indemnifying Party shall not have the right to direct that portion of the defense of such Proceeding on behalf of the Indemnified Party, but such Indemnifying Party may employ counsel and participate in the defense thereof but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnifying Party), in any of which events such reasonable fees and expenses shall be borne by such Indemnifying Party and paid as incurred (it being understood, however, that such Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel in any one Proceeding or series of related Proceedings together with reasonably necessary local counsel representing the Indemnified Parties who are parties to such action).  An Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any settlement of such Proceeding effected without the written consent of such Indemnifying Party, but if settled with the written consent of such Indemnifying Party, such Indemnifying Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless an Indemnified Party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Party shall have requested an Indemnifying Party to reimburse such Indemnified Party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the second sentence of this paragraph, then such Indemnifying Party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any
(c)
          
Proceeding
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
Proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 Business Days after receipt by such Indemnifying Party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such Indemnifying Party shall not have reimbursed such Indemnified Party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement and (iii) such Indemnified Party shall have given such Indemnifying Party at least 30 days' prior notice of its intention to settle.  No Indemnifying Party shall, without the prior written consent of any Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened Proceeding in respect of which such Indemnified Party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such Proceeding and does not include an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of such Indemnified Party.
 
If the indemnification provided for in this Section 7 is unavailable to an Indemnified Party under subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 7 in respect of any losses, damages, expenses, liabilities, judgments or claims referred to therein, then each applicable Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Holders on the other hand from the offering of the Registrable Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Holders on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Holders on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Holders and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.  The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, damages, expenses, liabilities, judgments and claims referred to above shall be deemed to include any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any Proceeding.
(d)
          
 
The Company and the Holders agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in subsection (d) above.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Holder shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Registrable Securities sold by it were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which it has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Holders' respective obligations to contribute
(e)
          
pursuant to this Section 7 are several in proportion to the respective amount of Registrable Securities they have sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement, and not joint.  The remedies provided for in this Section 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
 
The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 7 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or any person controlling any Holder, or the Company, or the Company's officers or directors or any person controlling the Company and (iii) the sale of any Registrable Security by any Holder.
(f)
           
 
.
Section 8.
             
Information Requirements
 
The Company covenants that (i) it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act; and (ii) if at any time before the end of the Effectiveness Period it is not subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, it will cooperate with any Holder of Registrable Securities to make available such information necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act and take such further action as any Holder of Registrable Securities may reasonably request in writing (including, without limitation, making such representations as any such Holder may reasonably request), all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Registrable Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by Rule 144, Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act and customarily taken in connection with sales pursuant to such exemptions.  Upon the written request of any Holder of Registrable Securities, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such filing requirements, unless such a statement has been included in the Company's most recent report filed with the SEC pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of Exchange Act.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 8 shall be deemed to require the Company to register any of its securities (other than the Common Stock) under any section of the Exchange Act.
(a)
          
 
The Company shall comply with all requirements set forth in the instructions to Form S-1 or Form S-3, as the case may be, in order to allow the Company to be eligible to file registration statements on Form S-1 or Form S-3.  The Company shall use its best efforts to remain eligible, pursuant to Rule 430B(b), to omit, from the prospectus that is filed as part of a Registration Statement, the identities of selling securityholders and amounts of securities to be registered on their behalf.
(b)
          
 
.
Section 9.
             
Miscellaneous
 
The Company is not, as of the date hereof, a party to, nor shall it, on or after the date of this Agreement, enter into, any agreement
(a)
          
No Conflicting Agreements. 
with respect to its securities that conflicts with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities in this Agreement.  The Company represents and warrants that the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Securities hereunder do not in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's securities under any other agreements.
 
The Company shall not, directly or indirectly, take any action with respect to the Registrable Securities as a class that would adversely affect the ability of the Holders of Registrable Securities to include such Registrable Securities in a registration undertaken pursuant to this Agreement.
(b)
          
Adjustments Affecting Registrable Securities. 
 
The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of a majority of the then outstanding Underlying Common Stock constituting Registrable Securities (with Holders of Notes deemed to be the Holders, for purposes of this Section, of the number of outstanding shares of Underlying Common Stock into which such Notes are or would be convertible as of the date on which such consent is requested).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a waiver or consent to depart from the provisions hereof with respect to a matter that relates exclusively to the rights of Holders of Registrable Securities whose securities are being sold pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and that does not directly or indirectly affect the rights of other Holders of Registrable Securities may be given by Holders of at least a majority of the Registrable Securities being sold by such Holders pursuant to such Shelf Registration Statement; provided that the provisions of this sentence may not be amended, modified, or supplemented except in accordance with the provisions of the immediately preceding sentence.  Each Holder of Registrable Securities outstanding at the time of any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent or thereafter shall be bound by any such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent effected pursuant to this Section 9(c), whether or not any notice, writing or marking indicating such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consent appears on the Registrable Securities or is delivered to such Holder.  Each Holder may waive compliance with respect to any obligation of the Company under this Agreement as it may apply to or be enforced by such particular Holder.
(c)
          
Amendments and Waivers. 
 
All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, by telecopier, by courier guaranteeing overnight delivery or by first-class mail, return receipt requested, and shall be deemed given (i) when made, if made by hand delivery, (ii) upon confirmation, if made by telecopier, (iii) one (1) Business Day after being deposited with such courier, if made by overnight courier or (iv) on the date indicated on the notice of receipt, if made by first-class mail, to the parties as follows:
(d)
          
Notices. 
 
if to a Holder of Registrable Securities, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company in a Notice and Questionnaire or any amendment thereto;
(x)
           
 
if to the Company, to:
(y)
          
Cameron International Corporation 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700 Houston, Texas  77027 Attention:  William C. Lemmer Telecopy No.:  (713) 513-3456
 
with a copy to:
 
Porter & Hedges, L.L.P. 700 Louisiana Street, Suite 3500 Houston, Texas  77002 Attention:  Sam Allen Telecopy No.:  (713) 226-0235
 
if to the Initial Purchasers, to:
(z)
           
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated 1585 Broadway New York, New York  10036 Attention:  Syndicate Department Telecopy No.:  (212) 296-3146
 
with a copy to (for informational purposes only):
 
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated 1585 Broadway New York, New York  10036 Attention:  Syndicate Department Telecopy No.:  (212) 296-3146to:
 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York  10013 Attention:  Legal Department Telecopy No.:  (646) 291-5366
 
and to:
 
J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. 277 Park Avenue, 9th Floor New York, New York  10172 Attention:  Syndicate Telecopy No.:  (212) 622-8358
with a copy to:
Baker Botts L.L.P.. 910 Louisiana Houston, Texas  77002 Attention:  David Kirkland Telecopy No.:  (713) 229-1522
 
or to such other address as such person may have furnished to the other persons identified in this Section 9(d) in writing in accordance herewith.
 
Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Securities held by the Company or its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) (other than the Initial Purchasers or subsequent Holders of Registrable Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be such affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Registrable Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
(e)
          
Approval of Holders. 
 
Any person who purchases any Registrable Securities from the Initial Purchasers or any Holder shall be deemed, for purposes of this Agreement, to be an assignee of the Initial Purchasers or such Holder, as the case may be.  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties and shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon each Holder of any Registrable Securities.
(f)
           
Successors and Assigns. 
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
(g)
          
Counterparts. 
 
The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
(h)
          
Headings. 
 
THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES THEREOF.
(i)
           
Governing Law. 
 
If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated thereby, and the parties hereto shall use their best efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction, it being intended that all of the rights and privileges of the parties shall be enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
(j)
           
Severability. 
 
This Agreement, together with the Purchase Agreement, the Notes and the Indenture, is intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement and is intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter
(k)
          
Entire Agreement. 
contained herein and the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities.  Except as provided in the Purchase Agreement, there are no restrictions, promises, warranties or undertakings, other than those set forth or referred to herein, with respect to the registration rights granted by the Company with respect to the Registrable Securities.  This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings among the parties with respect to such registration rights.  No party hereto shall have any rights, duties or obligations with respect to such registration rights other than those specifically set forth in this Agreement.
 
This Agreement and the obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate upon the end of the Effectiveness Period, except for any liabilities or obligations under Section 5, 6 or 7 hereof and the obligations to make payments of and provide for liquidated damages under Section 3(b) hereof to the extent such damages accrue prior to the end of the Effectiveness Period, each of which shall remain in effect in accordance with its terms.
(l)
           
Termination. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 
 
Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above:
 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED
 
 
 
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
 
 
 
J. P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
May 23, 2006
 
 
May 23, 2006
 
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. J. P. MORGAN SECURITIES
as Initial Purchasers c/o Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated
1585 Broadway
New York, New York  10036
 
Dear Sirs and Mesdames:
 
Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to you (the "") $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 2.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the ""). In addition, the Company proposes to grant to the Initial Purchasers the option to purchase from the Company up to an additional $75,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2026 (the ""). The Firm Notes and the Additional Notes are herein collectively sometimes referred to as the "".
Company
Initial Purchasers
Firm Notes
Additional Notes
Notes
 
The Notes are to be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "") to be entered into at or prior to the "time of purchase" (as defined herein), between the Company and SunTrust Bank, as trustee (the ""). The Notes will be convertible in accordance with their terms and the terms of the Indenture into cash and, if applicable, shares of the common stock (the "") of the Company, par value $0.01 per share (the "").
Indenture
Trustee
Common Stock
Shares
 
The Notes and the Shares will be offered by the Company without being registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), to persons reasonably believed to be "qualified institutional buyers" in compliance with the exemption from registration provided by Rule 144A under the Securities Act ("").
Securities Act
Rule 144A
 
The Initial Purchasers and their direct and indirect transferees will be entitled to the benefits of a Registration Rights Agreement to be entered into at or prior to the time of purchase between the Company and the Initial Purchasers (the "").
Registration Rights Agreement
 
The Company has furnished to you, for use by you in connection with the offering of the Notes, copies of a preliminary offering memorandum (the ""), and the Company will, on or before the second business day after the date hereof, prepare and furnish to you, for use by you in connection with the offering of the Notes, a final offering memorandum (the "" and, with the Preliminary
Preliminary Memorandum
Final Memorandum
 
Memorandum, each a ""), each of which Memoranda includes or will include, among other things, a description of the terms of the Notes and the Shares, the terms of the offering and a description of the Company. Any reference herein to the Preliminary Memorandum, Final Memorandum or Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents, if any, incorporated by reference, or deemed to be incorporated by reference, therein (the ""), including, unless the context otherwise requires, the documents, if any, filed as exhibits to such Incorporated Documents. Any reference herein to the terms "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the any Memorandum shall be deemed to refer to and include the filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder (collectively, the "") on or after the date of such Memorandum and deemed to be incorporated therein by reference.
Memorandum
Incorporated Documents
Commission
Exchange Act
 
As used in this Agreement, "" shall mean a day on which the New York Stock Exchange (the "") is open for trading. The terms "herein," "hereof," "hereto," "hereinafter" and similar terms, as used in this Agreement, shall in each case refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular section, paragraph, sentence or other subdivision of this Agreement. The term "or," as used herein, is not exclusive.
business day
NYSE
 
This Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Notes and the Indenture are hereinafter sometimes referred to collectively as the "."
Operative Documents
 
The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree as follows:
 
.             :  Upon the basis of the representations and warranties and subject to the other terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to issue and sell to the respective Initial Purchasers and each of the Initial Purchasers, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, the aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes set forth opposite the name of such Initial Purchaser in attached hereto in each case at a purchase price of 98.375% of the principal amount thereof.
1
Sale and Purchase
Schedule A
 
98.375% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued interest, if any, from the "time of purchase" (as hereinafter defined) to the "additional time of purchase" (as hereinafter defined), such accrued interest to be calculated in the same manner and at the same rate at which interest accrues on the Notes in accordance with their terms and the terms of the Indenture. The Manager's Option may be exercised by Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("") on behalf of the several Initial Purchasers at any time and from time to time on or before the thirtieth day following the date of the Final Memorandum by written notice to the Company. Such notice shall set forth the aggregate principal amount of
In addition, the Company hereby grants to the several Initial Purchasers the option (the "") to purchase from time to time, and upon the basis of the representations and warranties and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Initial Purchasers shall have the right to purchase, severally and not jointly, from the Company, ratably in accordance with the aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes to be purchased by each of them, all or a portion of the Additional Notes, at a purchase price of
Manager's Option
Morgan Stanley
Additional Notes as to which the Manager's Option is being exercised and the date and time when the Additional Notes are to be delivered (any such date and time being herein referred to as an ""); , , that no additional time of purchase shall be earlier than the "time of purchase" (as defined below) nor earlier than the second business day after the date on which the Manager's Option shall have been exercised nor later than the tenth business day after the date on which the Manager's Option shall have been exercised. The principal amount of Additional Notes to be sold to each Initial Purchaser shall be the principal amount which bears the same proportion to the aggregate principal amount of Additional Notes being purchased as the principal amount of Firm Notes set forth opposite the name of such Initial Purchaser on hereto bears to the aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes, subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 9 hereof.
additional time of purchase
provided
however
Schedule A
 
2.             :  Payment of the purchase price for the Firm Notes shall be made to the Company by Federal Funds wire transfer, against delivery of the Firm Notes to you through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ("") for the respective accounts of the Initial Purchasers. Such payment and delivery shall be made at 9:00 A.M., central standard time, on May 26, 2006 (unless another time shall be agreed to by you and the Company or unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 hereof). The time at which such payment and delivery are to be made is hereinafter sometimes called the "."  Electronic transfer of the Firm Notes shall be made to you at the time of purchase in such names and in such denominations as you shall specify.
Payment and Delivery
DTC
time of purchase
 
Payment of the purchase price for the Additional Notes shall be made at the additional time of purchase in the same manner and at the same office and time of day as the payment for the Firm Notes. Electronic transfer of the Additional Notes shall be made to you at the additional time of purchase in such names and in such denominations as you shall specify.
 
For the purpose of expediting the checking of the certificates for the Notes by you, the Company agrees to make such certificates available to you for such purpose at least one full business day preceding the time of purchase or the additional time of purchase, as the case may be.
 
Deliveries of the documents described in Section 7 hereof with respect to the purchase of the Notes shall be made at the offices of Baker Botts L.L.P. at 910 Louisiana, Houston, Texas, at 8:00 A.M., central standard time, on the date of the closing of the purchase of the Firm Notes or the Additional Notes, as the case may be.
 
.             :  The Company represents and warrants to and agrees with each of the Initial Purchasers that:
3
Representations and Warranties of the Company
 
(a)           At no time during the period that begins on the date of the Preliminary Memorandum and ends at the time of purchase did or will the Preliminary Memorandum, as then amended or supplemented and when taken together with the Term Sheet, include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; at no time during the period that begins
on the date of the Final Memorandum and ends at the later of the time of purchase, the latest additional time of purchase, if any, and the last time at which the Final Memorandum, as then amended or supplemented, is delivered in connection with an initial resale of any Notes by any Initial Purchaser will the Final Memorandum, as then amended or supplemented, include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided, however, that the Company makes no representation or warranty in this Section 3(a) with respect to any statement contained in either Memorandum in reliance upon and in conformity with information concerning an Initial Purchaser and furnished in writing by or on behalf of such Initial Purchaser through Morgan Stanley to the Company expressly for use in such Memorandum; each Incorporated Document, at the time such document was filed, or will be filed, with the Commission or at the time such document became or becomes effective, as applicable, complied or will comply, in all material respects, with the requirements of the Exchange Act and did not or will not, as applicable, include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The "" means the term sheet attached as hereto.
Term Sheet
Exhibit D
 
(b)           Prior to the execution of this Agreement, the Company has not, directly or indirectly, offered or sold any Notes by means of, or used, in connection with the offer or sale of the Notes, any material or communication that would, assuming the Notes were to be offered publicly, constitute a "prospectus" (within the meaning of the Act), in each case other than the Preliminary Memorandum.
 
(c)           All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock, including Common Stock, of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable, have been issued in compliance with all federal and state securities laws and were not issued in violation of any statutory or contractual preemptive rights, resale rights, rights of first refusal or similar rights.
 
(d)           The subsidiaries of the Company (the ""), other than Cooper Cameron (UK) Limited, Cooper Cameron Canada Corporation, Cameron France SAS, Cooper Cameron (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Cooper Cameron Valves Italy Srl, Cameron International Holding Corp., Cooper Cameron Holding (Cayman) Limited, Cameron Holding (Luxembourg) SARL and Cameron (Luxembourg) SARL (each, a ""), (i) do not, individually or in the aggregate, account for more than 20% of the Company and its subsidiaries' customer sales, (ii) do not, individually or in the aggregate, provide more than 20% of the Company and its subsidiaries' income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, and (iii) do not, individually or in the aggregate, account for more than 20% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries after the elimination of intercompany items. Except as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, all of the
subsidiaries
Principal Subsidiary
issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each Principal Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable. All shares of capital stock or other equity interests of the Principal Subsidiaries that are owned of record directly by the Company or indirectly by a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company are owned free and clear of any lien, security interest, pledge, charge, encumbrance, mortgage, equity, claim or adverse interest of any nature (each a ""); none of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of any such Principal Subsidiary was issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights or the charter or bylaws or other organizational documents of the Company or such Principal Subsidiary or any agreement to which the Company or such Principal Subsidiary is a party. Except as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, there are no outstanding subscriptions, rights, warrants or options to acquire, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock or other equity interest of the Principal Subsidiaries.
Lien
 
(e)           The Company and each Principal Subsidiary has been duly incorporated, organized or formed as a corporation, partnership or other entity, is validly existing in good standing under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation, organization or formation and has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as it is currently being conducted as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted. The Company and each Principal Subsidiary is duly registered and qualified and in good standing as a foreign corporation, partnership or other entity authorized to do business in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such registration or qualification, except where the failure to be so registered or qualified would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect. A "" means any material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or other), properties, results of operations, earnings or business prospects of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
 
(f)            The Company has all requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Operative Documents and to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents to be consummated on its part and, without limitation, the Company has all requisite power and authority to issue, sell and deliver the Notes.
 
(g)           This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and when executed and delivered by the Company and by you will be a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
 
(h)           The Indenture has been duly and validly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered by the Company (assuming the due
authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee), will constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.
 
(i)            The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by the Company and when executed and delivered by the Company and duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Initial Purchasers will be a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, and will entitle the holders of the Notes to the benefits thereof and enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity and (ii) rights to indemnity and contribution may be limited by applicable law.
 
(j)            The Notes have been duly and validly authorized for issuance and sale to the Initial Purchasers by the Company and, when executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered by the Company against payment by the Initial Purchasers in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Notes will have been validly issued and delivered, will be legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity. The Shares initially issuable upon conversion of the Notes have been duly authorized and validly reserved for issuance upon conversion of the Notes, and upon conversion of the Notes in accordance with their terms and the terms of the Indenture will be issued free of statutory and contractual preemptive rights and are sufficient in number to meet the current conversion requirements, and such Shares, when so issued upon such conversion in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, will be duly and validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable.
 
(k)           The Notes, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Indenture and the capital stock of the Company, including the Shares, conform in all material respects to each description thereof contained or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum.
 
(l)            None of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary is (i) in violation of its charter, bylaws or other constitutive and governing documents, (ii) in default (or, with notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any bond, debenture, note, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, or
other evidence of indebtedness, or any lease, license, franchise agreement, authorization, permit, certificate or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of their assets or properties is subject (collectively, "Agreements and Instruments"), or (iii) in violation of any law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court with jurisdiction over any of them or any of their assets or properties or other governmental or regulatory authority, agency or other body, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) herein, would not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. There exists no condition that, with notice, the passage of time or otherwise, would constitute a default by the Company or any Principal Subsidiary under any such document or instrument or result in the imposition of any penalty or the acceleration of any indebtedness, other than penalties, defaults or conditions that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(m)          The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, does not or will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to, (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, (ii) any Agreements and Instruments, (iii) any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective assets or properties or (iv) any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective assets or properties, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iv), would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (A) have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(n)           No approval, authorization, consent or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any federal, state, local or foreign court or governmental agency, body or administrative agency, or of or with the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or approval of stockholders of the Company, is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby, except (i) such as have been or will be obtained or made on or prior to the time of purchase in connection with the issuance of the Notes, (ii) such as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws, (iii) as may be required by federal and state securities laws with respect to the Company's obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement and the listing of the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange in connection therewith, or (iv) those for which the failure to obtain would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (A) have a Material
Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(o)           Except as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, (i) no person has any preemptive rights or similar rights to purchase any shares of Common Stock or shares of any other capital stock or other equity interests of the Company, whether as a result of the sale of the Notes as contemplated hereby or otherwise, and (ii) no person has the right to act as an initial purchaser or as a financial advisor to the Company in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes. Except as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum and except pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, no person has the right, contractual or otherwise, to require the Company to register any securities with the Commission, whether in the registration statement to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement or otherwise, and whether as a result of the sale of the Notes as contemplated hereby or otherwise.
 
(p)           Except as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, there is no action, suit, claim, investigation or proceeding before or by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, board, authority, body or official, domestic or foreign, now pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened or contemplated to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which the business, assets or property of such entity is subject, except such as, if determined adversely to the Company or such subsidiary, would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (i) have a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents. Every request of any securities authority or agency of any jurisdiction for additional information with respect to the Notes that has been received by the Company or its counsel prior to the date hereof has been, or will prior to the time of purchase be, complied with in all material respects.
 
(q)           Except as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, the Company and each Principal Subsidiary (i) is in compliance with, or not subject to costs or liabilities under, any and all local, state, provincial, federal and foreign laws, regulations, rules of common law, orders and decrees, as in effect as of the date hereof, and any present judgments and injunctions issued or promulgated thereunder relating to pollution or protection of public and employee health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants applicable to it or its business or operations or ownership or use of its property (""), (ii) possesses all permits, licenses or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws, and is in compliance with all terms and conditions of any such permit, license or other approval, and (iii) except as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, has not received notice of any actual or potential liability for the investigation or remediation
Environmental Laws
of any disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, except in each case where liability or other consequences arising out of the matters referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) above would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. There has been no spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release of any kind onto any property now or previously owned or leased by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or into the environment surrounding such property of any solid wastes or hazardous substances due to or caused by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except for any such spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. There are no costs or liabilities associated with Environmental Laws (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties) which would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. For purposes of this provision, the terms "hazardous substances" and "solid wastes" shall have the meanings specified in any applicable Environmental Laws.
 
(r)            Except as otherwise set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum or such as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all property (real and personal) described or incorporated by reference into the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum as being owned by it, free and clear of all Liens, except Liens for taxes not yet due and payable and Liens described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum. All the property described in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum or a document incorporated by reference into either the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, as being held under lease by the Company or any of its subsidiaries is held by such entity under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(s)           The Company and each subsidiary has filed on a timely basis all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income, franchise and other tax returns (other than returns being contested in good faith or as to which the failure to file would not have a Material Adverse Effect) and have paid all taxes shown thereon as due (other than those being contested in good faith or which are currently payable without penalty or interest), and the Company has no knowledge of any tax deficiency which has been or might be asserted against the Company or any subsidiary except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect; all material tax liabilities are adequately provided for within the financial statements of the Company in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("").
GAAP
 
(t)            None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum will be,
required to register as an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" incorporated in the United States within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(u)           The Company and each of the Principal Subsidiaries maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that:  (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of its financial statements in conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for its assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences. Since December 31, 2005, there have been no significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that could materially affect the Company's or any Principal Subsidiary's internal controls over financial reporting.
 
(v)           The Company has established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15 and 15d-15 under the Exchange Act); such disclosure controls and procedures (i) are designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to the Company's Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005 was being prepared; (ii) have been evaluated for effectiveness as of the end of the periods covered by the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005; and (iii) are effective to perform the functions for which they were established.
 
(w)          Based on the evaluation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and other than as has been disclosed to the Company's auditors and the audit committee of the board of directors of the Company, the Company is not aware of (i) any significant deficiency in the design or operation of internal controls which could adversely affect its ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data or any material weaknesses in internal controls; or (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the internal controls of the Company.
 
(x)            Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) the Company and each of its subsidiaries are insured by insurers of recognized financial responsibility against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary in the businesses in which they are engaged, (ii) all policies of insurance insuring the Company or any its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect and (iii) the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments. There are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy
or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause. Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for, except in each case as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum. Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum.
 
(y)           Since December 31, 2005, except as set forth or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, (i) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has (A) incurred any liabilities or obligations, direct or contingent, that would have a Material Adverse Effect, or (B) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (ii) there has been no material adverse change or any development involving a prospective material adverse change in the business, properties, management, condition (financial or otherwise), earnings or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and (iii) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock except in a manner consistent with past practices.
 
(z)            None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (or any agent thereof acting on their behalf other than the Initial Purchasers, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has taken, and none of them will take (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to whom the Company makes no representation), any action that would cause this Agreement or the issuance or sale of the Notes to violate Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or analogous foreign laws and regulations, in each case as in effect, or as the same may hereafter be in effect, at the time of purchase of the Notes.
 
(aa)         Ernst & Young LLP, who has certified or shall certify the audited financial statements included or to be included as part of or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum is an independent accountant within the meaning of the Securities Act. The historical financial statements and the notes and schedules thereto included in or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position and results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries at the respective dates and for the respective periods indicated. Such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods presented (except as disclosed in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, including the documents incorporated by reference therein). The other financial and statistical information and data included in or incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum are accurately presented in all material respects and prepared on a
basis consistent with the financial statements and the books and records of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
(bb)         Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess the right to use all patents, trademarks (both registered and unregistered), trademark registrations, service marks, service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, licenses, inventions, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum as being owned by them or any of them or necessary for the conduct of their respective businesses, and the Company is not aware of any claims to the contrary or any challenge by any other entity to the rights of the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to any of the foregoing.
 
(cc)         Except as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, there are no contracts, agreements or understandings between the Company or any subsidiaries and any other entity other than the Initial Purchasers that would give rise to a valid claim against the Company, any of its subsidiaries or the Initial Purchasers for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or like payment in connection with the issuance, purchase and sale of the Notes.
 
(dd)         Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries has fulfilled its obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("") and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to each "plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA and such regulations and published interpretations) in which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate and each such plan is in compliance with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and such regulations and published interpretations. Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries have not incurred any unpaid liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (other than for the payment of premiums in the ordinary course) or to any such plan under Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA
 
(ee)         No labor problem or dispute with any of the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or is threatened or imminent, nor is the Company aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries principal suppliers, contractors or customers, that could have a Material Adverse Effect, except as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum.
 
(ff)           The principal executive officer and principal financial officer of the Company have made all certifications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or any related rules and regulations promulgated by the Commission, and the statements contained in any such certification are true and correct in all material respects.
 
 
(gg)         The statistical and market-related data and forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) included in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum are based on or derived from sources that the Company believes to be reliable and accurate in all material respects and represent its good faith estimates that are made on the basis of data derived from such sources.
 
(hh)         When the Notes are issued pursuant to this Agreement, the Notes will not be of the same class (within the meaning of Rule 144A) as securities that are listed on a national securities exchange registered pursuant to Section 6 of the Exchange Act or quoted in a U.S. automated inter-dealer quotation system.
 
(ii)           Neither the Company nor any Affiliate (as defined in Rule 501(b) of Regulation D under the Securities Act) (i) sold, offered for sale, solicited offers to buy or otherwise negotiated in respect of, any security (as defined in the Securities Act) which is or would be integrated with the sale of the Notes in a manner that would require the registration under the Securities Act of the Notes or (ii) offered, solicited offers to buy or sold the Notes by any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the Securities Act) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
 
(jj)           It is not necessary in connection with the offer, sale and delivery of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to this Agreement to register the Notes or the Shares deliverable upon conversion of the Notes under the Securities Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
 
(kk)         The Company is subject to requirements of the sanctions program implemented and administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (""), including without limitation, 31 CFR Parts 500-600 (""). The Company consults from time to time with knowledgeable counsel regarding its compliance with the OFAC Sanctions Program. The Company has undertaken commercially reasonable efforts to comply with the OFAC Sanctions Program. None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or Affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC, and the Company will not expend any of its funds, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such funds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any such person in violation of the OFAC Sanctions Program.
OFAC
OFAC Sanctions Programs
 
In addition, any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries and delivered to the Initial Purchasers or counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall
be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company or Principal Subsidiary, as the case may be, as to matters covered thereby, to the Initial Purchasers.
 
4.             . The Initial Purchasers propose to offer the Notes for sale upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, and each Initial Purchaser hereby, severally and not jointly, represents and warrants to and agrees with the Company that:
Representations and Warranties of the Initial Purchasers
 
(a)           They will offer and sell the Notes only to persons whom they reasonably believe are "qualified institutional buyers" ("") within the meaning of Rule 144A in transactions meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and that, in purchasing such Notes, are deemed to have represented and agreed as provided in the Final Memorandum under the caption "Notice to Investors."
QIBs
 
(b)           Each Initial Purchaser is a QIB within the meaning of Rule 144A.
 
(c)           Each Initial Purchaser has not and will not directly or indirectly, solicit offers in the United States for, or offer or sell, the Notes by any form of general solicitation, general advertising (as such terms are used in Regulation D) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
 
.             :  The Company hereby agrees:
5
Certain Covenants of the Company
 
(a)           The Company will prepare the Final Memorandum in a form approved by the Initial Purchasers and will make no amendment or supplement to the Final Memorandum to which the Initial Purchasers reasonably object.
 
(b)           Promptly, from time to time, the Company will take such action as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request to qualify the Notes and the Shares for offering and sale under the securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Initial Purchasers may request and will comply with such laws so as to permit the continuance of sales and dealing therein in such jurisdictions for as long as may be necessary to complete the distribution of the Notes; , that in connection therewith the Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation, to file a general consent to service of process or subject itself to any tax in any such jurisdiction where it is not now so qualified or subject.
provided
 
(c)           The Company will furnish the Initial Purchasers with as many copies of the Final Memorandum, any documents incorporated by reference therein and any amendment or supplement thereto as the Initial Purchasers may from time to time reasonably request, and if, at any time prior to the completion of the resale of the Notes by the Initial Purchasers, any event shall have occurred as a result of which the Final Memorandum as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were
made when such Final Memorandum is delivered, not misleading, or, if for any other reason it shall be necessary or desirable during such same period to amend or supplement the Final Memorandum, the Company will notify the Initial Purchasers and upon the request of the Initial Purchasers will prepare and furnish without charge to the Initial Purchasers and to any dealer in securities as many copies as the Initial Purchasers may from time to time reasonably request of an amended Final Memorandum or a supplement to the Final Memorandum which will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance.
 
(d)           During the period beginning from the date hereof and continuing until the date 90 days after the date of the Final Memorandum, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of Morgan Stanley issue, offer, sell, contract to sell, hypothecate, pledge, grant or sell any option, right or warrant to purchase, or otherwise dispose of, or contract to dispose of, any Shares, any securities substantially similar to the Notes or the Common Stock, any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock and any debt securities or any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for the Notes or such other debt securities, or file or cause to be declared effective a registration statement under the Securities Act relating to the offer and sale of any Shares, any securities substantially similar to the Notes or the Common Stock, any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock and debt securities or any securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for the Notes or such other debt securities (other than (i) the issuance of the Notes; (ii) the issuance of Shares upon conversion of the Notes; (iii) the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon conversion or exercise of convertible or exercisable or exchangeable securities outstanding as of the date of this Agreement or (iv) the issuance of shares of Common Stock or options pursuant to employee stock option or employee stock purchase plans existing on, or upon exercise of warrants outstanding as of, the date of this Agreement), or enter into any swap or other agreement that transfers, in whole or in part, any of the economic consequences of ownership of the Common Stock or Notes irrespective of whether any transaction mentioned above is to be settled by delivery of the Common Stock, the Notes or other securities, in cash or otherwise.
 
(e)           At any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and so long as any of the Notes (or Shares issued upon conversion thereof) are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the Securities Act, for the benefit of holders from time to time of the Notes, the Company will furnish at its expense, upon request, to holders and beneficial owners of Notes and prospective purchasers of Notes information satisfying the requirements of subsection (d)(4)(i) of Rule 144A.
 
(f)            The Company will use its best efforts to cause the Notes to be eligible for trading in PORTAL.
(g)           For so long as the Notes remain outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Initial Purchasers copies of all reports or other communications (financial or other) furnished to stockholders of the Company, and will deliver, or make available via the Commission's Electronic Data, Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) System, to the Initial Purchasers (i) as soon as they are available, copies of any reports and financial statements furnished to or filed by the Company with the Commission or any securities exchange on which the Notes or any class of securities of the Company is listed; and (ii) such additional public information concerning the business and financial condition of the Company as the Initial Purchasers may from time to time reasonably request (such financial information to be on a consolidated basis to the extent the accounts of the Company and the Subsidiaries are consolidated in reports furnished to its stockholders generally or to the Commission).
 
(h)           The Company will use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement in the manner specified in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum under the caption "Use of Proceeds."
 
(i)            The Company will reserve and keep available at all times free of preemptive rights, Shares for the purpose of enabling the Company to satisfy any obligations to issue Shares upon conversion of the Notes.
 
(j)            The Company will use its best efforts to list, as promptly as practicable but in no event later than the time that the registration statement is declared effective in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, and subject to notice of issuance, the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
 
(k)           Whether or not the transactions contemplated in this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company will pay or cause to be paid all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including, without limitation, (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and the Company's accountants in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes and all other fees and expenses in connection with the preparation of each Memorandum and all amendments and supplements thereto, including all printing costs associated therewith, and the furnishing of copies thereof to the Initial Purchasers and to dealers (including costs of mailing and shipment), (ii) all costs related to the preparation, issuance, execution, authentication and delivery of the Notes and the Shares, (iii) all costs related to the transfer and delivery of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers, including any transfer or other taxes payable thereon, (iv) all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Notes and the Shares for offering and sale under state laws and the cost of printing and furnishing of copies of any blue sky or legal investment memorandum to the Initial Purchasers and to dealers (including filing fees and the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection with such qualification and in connection with such blue sky or legal investment memorandum), (v) any fees payable to investment rating agencies with respect to the rating of the Notes, (vi) the costs and charges of the Trustee and
any transfer agent, registrar or depositary, (vii) the fees and expenses, if any, incurred in connection with the admission of the Notes for trading in PORTAL or any appropriate market system, (viii) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the offering of the Notes, including, without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations with the prior approval of the Company, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of any aircraft chartered in connection with the road show, and (ix) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section 5(k).
 
(l)            Neither the Company nor any Affiliate will sell, offer for sale or solicit offers to buy or otherwise negotiate in respect of any security (as defined in the Securities Act) which could be integrated with the sale of the Notes in a manner which would require the registration under the Securities Act of the offer and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement.
 
(m)          The Company will not solicit any offer to buy or offer or sell the Notes or the Shares by means of any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.
 
(n)           The Company will not, at any time at or after the execution of this Agreement, directly or indirectly, offer or sell any Notes by means of, or use, in connection with the offer or sale of the Notes, any material or communication that would, assuming the Notes were to be offered publicly, constitute a "prospectus" (within the meaning of the Securities Act), in each case other than the Final Memorandum.
 
(o)           During the period after the time of purchase or the additional time of purchase, if later, the Company will not, and will not permit Affiliates, to resell any of the Notes or the Shares which constitute "restricted securities" under Rule 144 under the Securities Act that have been reacquired by any of them except pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act.
 
(p)           Neither the Company nor any Affiliate will take any action prohibited by Regulation M under the Exchange Act in connection with the distribution of the Notes contemplated hereby.
 
(q)           The Company and each Principal Subsidiary will comply in all material respects with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the officers and directors of the Company and each Principal Subsidiary, as the case may
be, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
 
6.             :  If the Firm Notes are not delivered for any reason other than the termination of this Agreement pursuant to clause (iii), (v) or (vi) of Section 8(b) or Section 9(e) hereof or the default by one or more of the Initial Purchasers in its or their respective obligations hereunder, the Company shall, in addition to paying the amounts described in Section 5(k) hereof, reimburse the Initial Purchasers for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
Reimbursement of Initial Purchasers' Expenses
 
7.             :  The several obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company on the date hereof and at the time of purchase. The several obligations of the Initial Purchasers at the additional time of purchase are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company on the date hereof, at the time of purchase and at the additional time of purchase, as the case may be. Additionally, the several obligations of the Initial Purchasers are subject to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of Initial Purchasers' Obligations
 
(a)           The Initial Purchasers shall have received at the time of purchase and at the additional time of purchase, as the case may be, an opinion of Porter & Hedges, L.L.P., counsel for the Company, substantially in the form of hereto, addressed to the Initial Purchasers and dated the date of the time of purchase or the additional time of purchase, as the case may be.
Exhibit A
 
(b)           The Initial Purchasers shall have received at the time of purchase and at the additional time of purchase, as the case may be, an opinion of William C. Lemmer, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary to the Company, substantially in the form of hereto, addressed to the Initial Purchasers and dated the date of the time of purchase or the additional time of purchase, as the case may be.
Exhibit B
 
(c)           The Initial Purchasers shall have received at the time of purchase and at the additional time of purchase, as the case may be, from Ernst & Young LLP customary comfort letters dated, respectively, as of the date of the time of purchase or the additional time of purchase, as the case may be, and addressed to the Initial Purchasers, which letters shall cover the various financial disclosures contained in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, in the form and substance heretofore approved by Morgan Stanley and Baker Botts L.L.P., counsel to the Initial Purchasers.
 
(d)           The Initial Purchasers shall have received at the time of purchase and at the additional time of purchase, as the case may be, the opinion of Baker Botts L.L.P., counsel for the Initial Purchasers, dated the date of the time of purchase or the
additional time of purchase, as the case may be, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to you.
 
(e)           No amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, or any document which upon filing with the Commission would be incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum, shall at any time have been made or filed to which the Initial Purchasers have reasonably objected in writing.
 
(f)            At the time of purchase or the additional time of purchase, as the case may be, neither the Preliminary Memorandum, when taken together with the Term Sheet, nor the Final Memorandum, and no amendment or supplement to either Memorandum, shall include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
(g)           Between the time of execution of this Agreement and the time of purchase, or an additional time of purchase, as the case may be, there shall not have occurred or become known any material and unfavorable change, financial or otherwise, in the business, properties, management, conditions, business prospects or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, that in the judgment of the Initial Purchasers makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes on the terms and in the manner contemplated by the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum.
 
(h)           The Company will, at the time of purchase and, if applicable at the additional time of purchase, deliver to you a certificate of its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer in the form attached as hereto.
Exhibit C
 
(i)            You shall have received copies, duly executed by the Company and the other parties thereto, of the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture.
 
(j)            The Company shall have furnished to you such other documents and certificates as to the accuracy and completeness of any statement in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum as of the time of purchase and the additional time of purchase, as the case may be, as you may reasonably request.
 
(k)           The Notes shall be included in the book-entry settlement system of the DTC and designated for trading on PORTAL, subject only to notice of issuance at or prior to the time of purchase.
 
(l)            Between the time of execution of this Agreement and the time of purchase or additional time of purchase, as the case may be, there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of (i) any intended or potential downgrading or (ii) any review or possible change that does not indicate an
improvement, in the rating accorded any securities of or guaranteed by the Company by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. or Standard & Poor's Rating Services.
 
This Agreement shall become effective when the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement.
.             : 
8
Effective Date of Agreement; Termination
 
The obligations of the several Initial Purchasers hereunder shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of Morgan Stanley at any time prior to the time of purchase or an additional time of purchase, as the case may be, if prior to such time (i) the Company shall have failed, refused or been unable to perform in any material respect any agreement on its part to be performed under this Agreement when and as required, (ii) any other condition to the obligations of the Initial Purchasers under this Agreement to be fulfilled by the Company pursuant to Section 7 is not fulfilled when and as required in any material respect, (iii) trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market shall have been suspended or limitations or minimum prices shall have been established on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market, (iv) a suspension or material limitation in trading in the Company's securities on the New York Stock Exchange has occurred, (v) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared either by the United States or New York State authorities, or if there has been a material disruption in securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (vi) the United States shall have declared war in accordance with its constitutional processes or there shall have occurred any material outbreak or escalation of hostilities or terrorism or other national or international calamity or crisis of such magnitude in its effect on the financial markets of the United States as, in the judgment of Morgan Stanley to make it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum.
 
If Morgan Stanley elects to terminate this Agreement as provided in this Section 8, the Company shall be notified as provided for herein.
 
If the sale to the Initial Purchasers of the Notes, as contemplated by this Agreement, is not carried out by the Initial Purchasers for any reason permitted under this Agreement or if such sale is not carried out because the Company shall be unable to comply and does not comply with any of the terms of this Agreement, the Company shall not be under any obligation or liability under this Agreement (except to the extent provided in Sections 5(k), 6 and 10 hereof), and the Initial Purchasers shall be under no obligation or liability to the Company under this Agreement (except to the extent provided in Section 9 hereof) or to one another hereunder.
  Subject to Sections 7 and 8 hereof, if any Initial Purchaser shall default in its obligation to take up and pay for the Notes to be purchased by it hereunder at the time of purchase or an additional time of purchase (otherwise than for a failure of a condition set forth in Section 7 hereof or a reason sufficient to justify the termination of this Agreement under the provisions of Section 8 hereof) (the "") and if the aggregate principal amount of the Defaulted Notes which all Initial Purchasers so defaulting shall have agreed but failed to take up and pay for at such time does not exceed 10% of the total aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased at such time, the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers (including the Initial Purchasers, if any, substituted in the manner set forth below) shall take up and pay for (in addition to the aggregate principal amount of Notes they are obligated to purchase at such time pursuant to Section 1 hereof) the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Notes agreed to be purchased by all such defaulting Initial Purchasers at such time, as hereinafter provided. Such Defaulted Notes shall be taken up and paid for by such non-defaulting Initial Purchasers, acting severally and not jointly, in such amount or amounts as you may designate with the consent of each Initial Purchaser so designated or, in the event no such designation is made, such Notes shall be taken up and paid for by all non-defaulting Initial Purchasers pro rata in proportion to the aggregate principal amount of Firm Notes set forth opposite the names of such non-defaulting Initial Purchasers in .
9.             :
Increase in Initial Purchasers' Commitments
Defaulted Notes
Schedule A
 
Without relieving any defaulting Initial Purchaser from its obligations hereunder, the Company agrees with the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers that it will not sell any Firm Notes hereunder unless all of the Firm Notes are purchased by the Initial Purchasers (or by substituted Initial Purchasers selected by you with the approval of the Company or selected by the Company with your approval). Without relieving any defaulting Initial Purchaser from its obligations hereunder, the Company agrees with the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers that it will not sell any Additional Notes hereunder at an additional time of purchase unless all of the Additional Notes to be purchased by the Initial Purchasers at such additional time of purchase (as set forth in the related written notice referred to in the second paragraph of Section 1 hereof) are purchased by the Initial Purchasers (or by substituted Initial Purchasers selected by you with the approval of the Company or selected by the Company with your approval).
 
If a new Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers are substituted by the Initial Purchasers or by the Company for a defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers in accordance with the foregoing provision, the Company or you shall have the right to postpone the time of purchase for a period not exceeding five business days in order that any necessary changes in the Final Memorandum and other documents may be effected.
 
The term "" as used in this Agreement shall refer to and include any Initial Purchaser substituted under this Section 9 with like effect as if such substituted Initial Purchaser had originally been named in hereto.
Initial Purchaser
Schedule A
 
If the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Notes which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed to purchase at the time of purchase or an
additional time of purchase, as the case may be, exceeds 10% of the total aggregate principal amount of Notes which all Initial Purchasers agreed to purchase hereunder at such time, and if neither the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers nor the Company shall make arrangements within the five business day period stated above for the purchase of all the Firm Notes which the defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed to purchase hereunder at such time, this Agreement, or, in the case of a default with respect to any Additional Notes, the obligations of the Initial Purchasers to purchase, and of the Company to sell, the Additional Notes that otherwise were to be purchased by the Initial Purchasers at such additional time of purchase, shall terminate without further act or deed and without any liability with respect thereto on the part of the Company to any Initial Purchaser and without any liability with respect thereto on the part of any non-defaulting Initial Purchaser to the Company; , , that, for avoidance of doubt, in the case of such a termination on account of a default with respect to any Additional Notes, this Agreement shall not terminate as to the Firm Notes or any Additional Notes purchased by the Initial Purchasers from the Company pursuant hereto prior to such termination. Nothing in this paragraph, and no action taken hereunder, shall relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser from liability in respect of any default of such Initial Purchaser under this Agreement.
provided
however
 
10.           :
Indemnity and Contribution
 
from and against any loss, damage, expense, liability or claim (including the reasonable cost of investigation) which, jointly or severally, any such Initial Purchaser Indemnified Party may incur under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the common law or otherwise, insofar as such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Memorandum as amended or supplemented, if applicable, or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated or necessary to make the statements made therein not misleading, except insofar as any such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in such Memorandum relying upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser to the Company expressly for use with reference to such Initial Purchaser or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact in connection with such information required to be stated in such Memorandum or necessary to make such statements not misleading.
each, an "")
(a)           The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, its partners, directors and officers, and any person who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and the successors and assigns of all the foregoing persons (
Initial Purchaser Indemnified Party
 
(b)           Each Initial Purchaser severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company, its directors and officers and any person who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and the successors and assigns of all the foregoing
from and against any loss, damage, expense, liability or claim (including the reasonable cost of investigation) which, jointly or severally, the Company or any such person may incur under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the common law or otherwise, insofar as such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in and in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of such Initial Purchaser to the Company expressly for use with reference to such Initial Purchaser or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact in connection with such information required to be stated in such Memorandum or necessary to make such statements not misleading.
each, a "")
persons (
Company Indemnified Party
 
is brought against any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 10, such person (the "") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing of the institution of such Proceeding and such Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense of such Proceeding, including the employment of counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Party and payment of all fees and expenses; , , that the omission to so notify such Indemnifying Party shall not relieve such Indemnifying Party from any liability which it may have to such Indemnified Party or otherwise, except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party has been prejudiced in any material respect by such omission to so notify. Such Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such case, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party unless the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by such Indemnifying Party in connection with the defense of such Proceeding or such Indemnifying Party shall not have employed counsel to have charge of the defense of such Proceeding within 30 days of the receipt of notice thereof or such Indemnified Party shall have reasonably concluded upon written advice of counsel that there may be defenses available to it that are different from, additional to, or in conflict with those available to such Indemnifying Party (in which case such Indemnifying Party shall not have the right to direct that portion of the defense of such Proceeding on behalf of such Indemnified Party, but such Indemnifying Party may employ counsel and participate in the defense thereof but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnifying Party), in any of which events such reasonable fees and expenses shall be borne by such Indemnifying Party and paid as incurred (it being understood, however, that such Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel in any one Proceeding or series of related Proceedings together with reasonably necessary local counsel representing the Indemnified Parties who are parties to such Proceeding). An Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any settlement of any such Proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with the written consent of such Indemnifying Party, such Indemnifying Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless an Indemnified Party from and against any loss or
(c)           If any action, suit or proceeding (each, a "")
Proceeding
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
provided
however
.
liability by reason of such settlement. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Party shall have requested an Indemnifying Party to reimburse such Indemnified Party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the second sentence of this paragraph, then such Indemnifying Party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any Proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 business days after receipt by such Indemnifying Party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such Indemnifying Party shall not have reimbursed such Indemnified Party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement and (iii) such Indemnified Party shall have given such Indemnifying Party at least 30 days' prior notice of its intention to settle. An Indemnifying Party shall not, without the prior written consent of any Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened Proceeding in respect of which such Indemnified Party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such Proceeding and does not include an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of such Indemnified Party
 
(d)           If the indemnification provided for in this Section 10 is held to be unavailable to an Indemnified Party under subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 10 in respect of any losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims referred to therein, then each applicable Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand from the offering of the Notes or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Initial Purchasers on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportion as the total proceeds from the offering (net of the Initial Purchasers' discounts and commissions but before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the discounts and commissions received by the Initial Purchasers. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Initial Purchasers on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in this subsection shall be deemed to include any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating, preparing to defend or defending any Proceeding.
.
The remedies provided for in this Section 10 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Party at law or in equity
(e)           The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 10 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in subsection (d) above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 10, no Initial Purchaser shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes resold by it in the initial placement of such were offered to investors exceeds the amount of any damage which such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Initial Purchasers' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 10 are several in proportion to the respective principal amount of Notes they have purchased hereunder and not joint.
 
(f)            The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 10 and the covenants, warranties and representations of the Company contained in this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser, its partners, directors and officers or any person (including each partner, officer or director of such person) who controls any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, or by or on behalf of the Company, its directors and officers or any person who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and shall survive the issuance and delivery of the Notes. In addition, the agreements contained in Sections 5(k), 6, 10, 11, and 13 shall survive the termination of this Agreement, including pursuant to Section 8. The Company and each Initial Purchaser agree promptly to notify each other of the commencement of any Proceeding against it and, in the case of the Company, against any of the Company's officers or directors, in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, or in connection with any Memorandum.
 
.           . The statements set forth in the last paragraph on the cover page of the Final Memorandum and the statements set forth in the fifth, seventh (second and third sentences only) and tenth paragraphs under the caption "Plan of Distribution" in the Final Memorandum constitute the only information furnished by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers.
11
Initial Purchasers' Information
 
12.           :  Except as otherwise herein provided, all statements, requests, notices and agreements shall be in writing or by facsimile and, if to the Initial Purchasers, shall be
Notices
sufficient in all respects if delivered or sent to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036, Attention:  Syndicate Department, facsimile no. (212) 296-3146, with a copy to (for informational purposes only): Attention:  Legal Department, facsimile no. (646) 202-9119, and, if to the Company, shall be sufficient in all respects if delivered or sent to the Company at the offices of the Company at 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700, Houston, Texas  77027, Attention:  General Counsel (telephone: (713) 513-3300, telecopy: (713) 513-3456.
 
: THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES. THE SECTION HEADINGS IN THIS AGREEMENT HAVE BEEN INSERTED AS A MATTER OF CONVENIENCE OF REFERENCE AND ARE NOT A PART OF THIS AGREEMENT.
.          
13
Governing Law and Construction
 
. Except as set forth below, no Proceeding may be commenced, prosecuted or continued in any court other than the courts of the State of New York located in the City and County of New York or in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which courts shall have jurisdiction over the adjudication of such matters, and the Company hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts and personal service with respect thereto. The Company hereby consents to personal jurisdiction, service and venue in any court in which any Proceeding arising out of or in any way relating to this Agreement is brought by any third party against any of the Initial Purchasers. The Company hereby waives all right to trial by jury in any Proceeding (whether based upon contract, tort or otherwise) in any way arising out of or relating to this Agreement. The Company agrees that a final judgment in any such Proceeding brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and may be enforced in any other courts in the jurisdiction of which the Company is or may be subject, by suit upon such judgment. The Company hereby appoints, without power of revocation, CT Corporation System, 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 as its agent to accept and acknowledge on its behalf service of any and all process which may be served in any Proceeding in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement.
14.          
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
.           :  The Agreement herein set forth has been and is made solely for the benefit of the Initial Purchasers and the Company and, to the extent provided in Section 10 hereof, the controlling persons, directors and officers referred to in such section, and their respective successors, assigns, executors and administrators. No other person, partnership, heirs, personal representatives, association or corporation (including a purchaser, as such purchaser, from any of the Initial Purchasers) shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement.
15
Parties at Interest
 
16.           . The Company hereby acknowledges that the Initial Purchasers are acting solely as initial purchasers in connection with the purchase and sale of the Company's securities. The Company further acknowledges that the Initial Purchasers are acting pursuant to a contractual relationship created solely by this Agreement entered into on
No Fiduciary Relationship
an arm's length basis, and in no event do the parties intend that the Initial Purchasers act or be responsible as a fiduciary to the Company, its management, stockholders or creditors or any other person in connection with any activity that the Initial Purchasers may undertake or have undertaken in furtherance of the purchase and sale of the Company's securities, either before or after the date hereof. The Initial Purchasers hereby expressly disclaim any fiduciary or similar obligations to the Company, either in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any matters leading up to such transactions, and the Company hereby confirms its understanding and agreement to that effect. The Company and the Initial Purchasers agree that they are each responsible for making their own independent judgments with respect to any such transactions and that any opinions or views expressed by the Initial Purchasers to the Company regarding such transactions, including, but not limited to, any opinions or views with respect to the price or market for the Company's securities, do not constitute advice or recommendations to the Company. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the Initial Purchasers with respect to any breach or alleged breach of any fiduciary or similar duty to the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any matters leading up to such transactions.
 
.           :  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties. Delivery of an executed counterpart by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
17
Counterparts
 
.           :  This Agreement shall be binding upon the Initial Purchasers and the Company and their successors and assigns and any successor or assign of any substantial portion of the Company's and any of the Initial Purchasers' respective businesses and/or assets.
18
Successors and Assigns
 
If the foregoing correctly sets forth the understanding between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, please so indicate in the space provided below for the purpose, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall constitute a binding agreement between the Company and the Initial Purchasers, severally.
 
 
Accepted and agreed to as of the date first above written, on behalf of itself and the other several Initial Purchasers named in hereto:
Schedule A
 
BY: MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED
 
 
 
BY: CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
 
 
 
BY: J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A
The opinion of Porter & Hedges, L.L.P., counsel for the Company (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Purchase Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 7(a) of the Purchase Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i)            The Purchase Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company, entitling the holders of the Notes to the benefits thereof and enforceable in accordance with its terms except as (i) the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general principles of equity and (ii) rights to indemnity and contribution may be limited by applicable law.
(ii)          
 
(iii)          The Indenture has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.
 
Purchase Agreement, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.
have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and when duly authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Initial Purchasers in accordance with the terms of the
(iv)          The Notes
 
The Shares initially issuable upon conversion of the Notes have been duly authorized and reserved for issuance upon conversion of the Notes, and upon conversion of the Notes in accordance with their terms and the terms of the Indenture will be issued free of statutory and contractual preemptive rights and are initially sufficient in number to meet the conversion requirements of the Notes, and such Shares, when so issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, will be duly and validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable.
(v)          
The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, and the issuance of the Shares upon conversion of the Notes, does not or will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, (ii) to the knowledge of such counsel, any Agreements and Instruments filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, together with any amendments to such Agreements or Instruments, (iii) to the knowledge of such counsel, any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any subsidiary or its respective assets or properties typical, in such counsel's experience, for transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents and assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement and the due performance by the Company and the Initial Purchasers thereof or (iv) to the knowledge of such counsel, any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary or their respective assets or properties that, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iv), would not, either individually or in the aggregate, interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes or the issuance of the Shares upon conversion of the Notes, in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
(vi)         
 
It is not necessary in connection with (i) the offer, sale and delivery of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to the Purchase Agreement or (ii) the initial resales of the Notes by the Initial Purchasers in the manner contemplated in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum to register the Notes under the Securities Act or to qualify the Indenture in respect thereof under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, it being understood that no opinion is expressed as to any subsequent resale of any Note or Share.
(vii)        
 
(viii)        No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any national, state or local court or governmental agency, body or administrative agency or of or with the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or approval of the stockholders of the Company, is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Purchase Agreement, the Indenture or the Notes, except (a) such as have been obtained or made on or prior to the date hereof, (b) such as may be required under state securities and blue sky laws, (c) as may be required by Federal or state securities laws with respect to the Company's obligations under the Registration Rights Agreement and the listing of the Shares on the New York Stock
Exchange in connection therewith, or (d) those for which the failure to obtain or make would not, either individually or in the aggregate (1) have a Material Adverse Effect or (2)  interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes or the Shares in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(ix)           The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(x)            The terms of the Notes, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Indenture and the capital stock of the Company, including the Shares, conform as to legal matters in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum.
 
(xi)           Each document filed under the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum (other than the financial statements and related schedules included therein, as to which such counsel need not comment) when they were filed with the Commission complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
The statements in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum under the captions "Description of the Notes", "Description of Capital Stock", "Plan of Distribution" and "Notice to Investors", in so far as such statements constitute summaries of legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly summarize the matters referred to therein.
(xii)         
 
(xiii)         In addition, such counsel shall state that they have participated in discussions with your representatives, representatives of the Company and its counsel and independent registered public accounting firm concerning the preparation of the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum. Such counsel shall state that, although they are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any of the statements in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum (except to the extent stated in paragraphs (x) and (xii) above), no facts have come to their attention that lead such counsel to believe that (i) the Preliminary Memorandum (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the Applicable Time (as defined below), when taken together with the Term Sheet (as defined below), included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (ii) the Final Memorandum (other than the financial
statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the date of the Final Memorandum, or as of the date hereof, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. As used herein, "" means 7:00 A.M., eastern standard time, on May 23, 2006.
Applicable Time
Exhibit B
The opinion of William C. Lemmer, Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Purchase Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 7(b) of the Purchase Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i)            The Company (a) has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation; (b) has the corporate power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted; and (c) is duly qualified or licensed to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(ii)           Based on a certificate of public officials in such jurisdictions and advice of counsel licensed to practice in such jurisdiction, each of Cooper Cameron (UK) Limited, Cooper Cameron Canada Corporation, Cameron France SAS, Cooper Cameron (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Cooper Cameron Valves Italy Srl, Cameron International Holding Corp., Cooper Cameron Holding (Cayman) Limited, Cameron Holding (Luxembourg) SARL and Cameron (Luxembourg) SARL (each, a "") (a) has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation; (b) has the corporate power and authority to own its property and to conduct it business as described in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted; and (c) is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Principal Subsidiary
 
(iii)          The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Operative Documents and to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents to be consummated on its part.
 
(iv)          The Company has an authorized capitalization as set forth in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum; the outstanding shares of capital stock of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable, have been issued in compliance with all federal and state securities laws and were not issued in violation of any statutory or contractual preemptive rights, resale rights, rights of first refusal or similar rights.
(v)           The statements in "Item 3  Legal Proceedings" of the Company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum, insofar as such statements constitute summaries of the legal proceedings referred to therein, fairly present the information called for with respect to such legal proceedings and fairly summarize the matters referred to therein.
 
(vi)          The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, and the issuance of the Shares upon conversion of the Notes, does not or will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, (ii) to the knowledge of such counsel, any Agreements and Instruments filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, together with any amendments to such Agreements or Instruments, (iii) to the knowledge of such counsel, any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any subsidiary or its respective assets or properties typical, in such counsel's experience, for transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents and assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Initial Purchasers in the Purchase Agreement and the due performance by the Company and the Initial Purchasers thereof or (iv) to the knowledge of such counsel, any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary or their respective assets or properties that, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iv), would not, either individually or in the aggregate, interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes or the issuance of the Shares upon conversion of the Notes, in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(vii)         Neither the Company nor any of the Principal Subsidiaries is in breach or violation of, or in default under (nor has any event occurred which with notice, lapse of time, or both would result in any breach or violation of, constitute a default under or give the holder of any indebtedness (or person acting on such holder's behalf), the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or part of such indebtedness under) its respective charter or by-laws or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, bank loan or credit agreement or other evidence of indebtedness, or any license, lease, contract or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them or their respective properties may be bound or affected, or under any federal, state, local or foreign law, regulation or rule or any decree, judgment or order applicable to the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries.
 
(viii)        After due inquiry, such counsel does not know of any legal or governmental proceedings pending or threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party
or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that would be required to be described in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum (if the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder were applicable to the offer and sale of the Notes) and are not so described or of any statutes, regulations, contracts or other documents that are required to be described in the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum (if the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder were applicable to the offer and sale of the Notes) or to be filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits to the Preliminary Memorandum or the Final Memorandum that are not described, filed or incorporated as required.
 
(ix)           In addition, such counsel shall state that he has participated in discussions with your representatives, representatives of the Company and its counsel and independent registered public accounting firm concerning the preparation of the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum. Such counsel shall state that, although he is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any of the statements in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum (except to the extent stated in paragraph (v) above), no facts have come to his attention that lead such counsel to believe that (i) the Preliminary Memorandum (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the Applicable Time (as defined below), when taken together with the Term Sheet (as defined below), included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (ii) the Final Memorandum (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the date of the Final Memorandum, or as of the date hereof, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. As used herein, "" means 7:00 A.M., eastern standard time, on May 23, 2006.
Applicable Time
Exhibit C
I have reviewed the Memorandum.
1.
              
 
The representations and warranties of the Company as set forth in the Purchase Agreement are true and correct as of the time of purchase and, if applicable, the additional time of purchase.
2.
              
 
The Company has performed all of its obligations under the Purchase Agreement as are to be performed at or before the time of purchase and at or before the additional time of purchase, as the case may be.
3.
              
 
The conditions set forth in paragraphs (f) and (g) of Section 7 of the Purchase Agreement have been met.
4.
              
 
The financial statements and other financial information included in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods presented in the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum.
5.
              
 
Exhibit D
 
 
$500,000,000 2.5% 144A Convertible Senior Notes due 2026
 
 
:
Make-Whole Table
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
 
 
CAMERON TO SELL $500 MILLION OF CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES
 
HOUSTON (May 22, 2006)  Cameron plans to offer $500 million of convertible notes due 2026. The offering will be made by means of a private placement pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
The notes will be convertible into shares of Cameron common stock under certain circumstances at a price to be determined during the marketing period. Cameron plans to use the net proceeds from the offering to repay at maturity (or, at Cameron's option, at an earlier date) 100% of Cameron's issued and outstanding $200 million 2.65% Senior Notes due 2007, to purchase outstanding shares of Cameron common stock and for general corporate purposes.
 
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state. The notes are to be offered or sold only to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. The notes to be offered have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
 
: www.c-a-m.com
Website
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
 
 
CAMERON PRICES $500 MILLION OF CONVERTIBLE SECURITIES
 
HOUSTON (May 23, 2006)  Cameron has priced $500 million of 2.50% convertible senior notes due 2026 to be sold to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The Company has also granted the initial purchasers of the notes a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional $75 million aggregate principal amount of the notes. The sale of the notes is expected to close on May 26, 2006.
 
Under certain circumstances, the notes will be convertible into the Company's common stock at a conversion rate of 14.1328 shares per $1,000 principal amount of the notes, subject to adjustment (equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $70.76 per share). The closing sale price of the Company's common stock on May 22, 2006 was $45.65 per share.
 
Cameron has the right to redeem these notes anytime on or after June 20, 2011 at the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest, and the note holders have the right to require Cameron to repurchase the notes for cash on the June 15, 2011, June 15, 2016 and June 15, 2021 anniversaries of the issue.
 
Cameron plans to use the net proceeds from this offering to repay at maturity (or, at Cameron's option, at an earlier date) 100% of the Company's issued and outstanding $200 million 2.65% Senior Notes due 2007, to purchase approximately $200 million of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock substantially concurrently with this offering, and for general corporate purposes, including the purchase of additional shares of the Company's common stock.
 
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state. The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, or any state securities laws, and unless so registered, may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state laws.
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
 
: www.c-a-m.com
Website
 


