FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20071218174815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On December 17, 2007, Cameron International Corporation (the "Company") filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware a Certificate of Elimination (the "Certificate of Elimination") of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock (the "Series A Preferred Stock"). The Certificate of Elimination provides that all references to the Series A Preferred Stock are eliminated from the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended. A copy of the Certificate of Elimination is attached as Exhibit 3.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. 3.1 Certificate of Elimination With Respect to Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 3.1
In accordance with Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), does hereby certify:
DGCL
Company
: That the following resolutions with respect to the proposed elimination of its Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock were duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company:
FIRST
, that no shares of the Company's Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock are outstanding and none will be issued; and
RESOLVED
, that any officer of the Company be, and each hereby is, authorized, empowered and directed to file with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware a certificate pursuant to Section 151(g) of the DGCL setting forth these resolutions in order to eliminate from the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, all reference to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
FURTHER RESOLVED
: None of the authorized shares of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock are outstanding and none will be issued.
SECOND
: In accordance with the provisions of Section 151 of the DGCL, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is hereby amended to eliminate all reference to the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock.
THIRD
, Cameron International Corporation has caused this Certificate to be signed by its Senior Vice President this 17 day of December, 2007.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
th


