FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20070731072343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 31, 2007, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the second quarter ended . The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
June 30, 2007
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits:
The following are being furnished as exhibits to this report:
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures  as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA). A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release. The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions. In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: 
July  31, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
2007-13
Contact:
R. Scott Amann
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON
SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $1.08 VS $0.64 LAST YEAR
HOUSTON
 
(July 31, 2007) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $123.2 million, or $1.08 per diluted
share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, compared with net income of $76.0 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2006
. The 2007 results include a gain of $0.06 per diluted share related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters, and the second quarter 2006 results included a net after-tax gain on unusual items of approximately $0.6 million, or $0.01 per diluted share.
Total revenues were $1,139.0 million for the quarter, up more than 32 percent from 2006s $857.8 million, and income before income taxes was $176.8 million, up 51 percent from the $116.9 million of a year ago. Cameron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that the results reflect continued solid performance from the Valves & Measurement (V&M) group, significant improvement in profitability from the Compression Systems
(CS) division and gains in revenues and earnings in the Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) group.
Subsea, offshore separation equipment, engineered valves orders drive backlog to record level
Total orders for the second quarter of 2007 were $1.31 billion, up four percent from year-ago levels, and five percent sequentially. Erikson noted that orders for each of the Companys operating units increased over the prior year, and that the DPS groups orders were up more than 13 percent sequentially. Subsea orders were the highest since the second quarter of 2005; we also recorded the strongest level of bookings for separation equipment in our history, as offshore operators continued to place orders related to their subsea developments, Erikson said. In addition, we saw another solid quarter with respect to orders for V&Ms engineered valves, also driven by offshore development applications. As we had anticipated, the relative decline in orders for new drilling equipment was offset by increases in other product lines. He noted that year-to-date orders totaled approximately $2.56 billion, down modestly from the $2.59 billion of the first half of 2006, and that at June 30, 2007, total backlog was a record $3.98 billion, up from the prior quarters record of $3.77 billion and the June 30, 2006 level of $3.10 billion.
Capital spending program continues; new subsea facility nearly complete, surface expansion approved
Erikson said that the Companys year-to-date cash flow from operations was approximately $54 million, compared with approximately $112 million in the first half of 2006. During the first half of 2007, we have invested heavily in working capital, primarily inventories, in support of the overall strong market conditions, he said.
Erikson also noted that Cameron spent approximately $108 million in capital expenditures in the first half, with most of that directed toward the Companys efforts to upgrade machine tools and reconfigure manufacturing processes in selected locations in order to further improve efficiency and capacity. The DPS groups new subsea manufacturing facility in Malaysia will begin production in mid-August. This new facility adds to our subsea tree manufacturing capabilities, and frees up capacity in our nearby Singapore facility for the production of surface equipment, he said.
Erikson also said that Camerons board has approved a $63 million expenditure for a new manufacturing facility in Romania. The new facility, which should begin production in late 2008, will add to the DPS groups ability to produce high-specification wellheads and trees for the surface equipment markets, particularly in Europe, Africa, Russia and the Mediterranean and Caspian Seas. The combination of current product demand, new projects now under way and customers plans for new developments in these regions over the next several years make this a prudent investment at this time, Erikson said. Our existing operations in Romania provide equipment for conventional production installations; the new facility will incorporate state-of-the-art technology and machine tools to provide high-end product for a broader, more challenging range of applications.
Debt-to-cap ratio remains low, balance sheet provides financial flexibility
     At June 30, 2007, Camerons total debt, net of cash and short-term investments, was $287.4 million, up from $113.1 million at March 31, 2007, and the Companys net debt-to-capitalization ratio was approximately 14.0 percent.
   
Erikson also noted that the Company repurchased 1,862,400 shares of its common stock during the quarter at an average price of $67.89 per share, and has spent more than $277 million on share buybacks in the first half of 2007. Erikson said that Cameron expects to have ample cash available for possible acquisitions or additional repurchases of common stock.
Pension plan changes to result in non-cash charges
As a result of Camerons recent decision to terminate its U.S. defined benefit pension plans and distribute the assets to the participants, the Company will record non-cash, pre-tax charges totaling approximately $85 million between the fourth quarter of 2007 and the first quarter of 2009. The majority of the charge is expected to be recorded during the fourth quarter of 2007, but cannot be estimated with certainty at this time. The timing of the charges will depend on when assets are distributed from the plans, Erikson said. During the fourth quarter of this year, participants who are no longer employees may elect to withdraw their balances; current employees will receive their balances once the necessary governmental approvals are received, which we anticipate will be in late 2008 or early 2009. The remaining charges will be recognized at that time. Erikson also said that this process will require an additional $10 million to $15 million to be funded to the plans in the latter part of 2008 or early 2009.
Full-year earnings expectations increased
Erikson said that Camerons third quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of approximately $1.05 to $1.10 per share, and that full-year earnings, excluding any non-cash charges related to the pension plan termination, are expected to be approximately $4.10 to $4.20 per
share, compared with t
he
Companys previous guidance of $3.85 to $4.00 per share for the year.
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future earnings of the Company (including third quarter and full year 2007 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding the impact of the Companys decision to terminate its U.S. pension plan, future cash flows and use of funds for capital spending, acquisitions and stock repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity. In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services. Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels based on these expectations.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
Cameron
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
($ millions)
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
($ millions)
 
 
 
Cameron
Orders and Backlog
($ millions)
Orders
Backlog
 
 
 
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions)
 
 
 
 
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions)


