FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20070427072745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 27, 2007, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results of the first quarter ended March 30, 2007. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     The following are being furnished as exhibits to this report:
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures  as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA). A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release. The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions. In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 27, 2007
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
2007-6
Contact:
 
R. Scott Amann
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
Cameron first quarter earnings per share $0.88 vs. $0.47 last year
HOUSTON (
April 27, 2007) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $101.0 million, or $0.88 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, compared with net income of $56.0 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2006. The first quarter 2006 results included after-tax acquisition integration charges of approximately $6.5 million, or $0.05 per diluted share.
Revenues up 20 percent from year ago, income before taxes up 80 percent
Revenues were $997.0 million for the quarter, up 20 percent from 2006s $829.7 million, and income before income taxes was $155.4 million, up 80 percent from $86.2 million a year ago. Cameron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that the year-over-year increase in revenues was driven by gains across the business lines in the Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) group, particularly in drilling, which nearly doubled from a year ago. Revenues for both the Valves & Measurement (V&M) group and the Compression Systems (CS) division were essentially even with the first quarter of 2006. The significant increase in income before income taxes in the quarter was driven by incremental revenues at DPS, as well as margin expansion across all of the product lines in the V&M group.
Orders exceed revenues for tenth consecutive quarter
Total orders were $1.25 billion for the quarter and were greater than revenues for the tenth consecutive quarter, dating back to the fourth quarter of 2004. Orders were down from the first quarter of a year ago, due primarily to a decline in orders in the drilling segment of the DPS group. The first quarter of 2006 was the highest single orders quarter in our history, with record bookings in the drilling business and in DPS in total, Erikson said. While we have probably seen the peak in equipment orders related to deepwater rig construction, 2007s orders in the drilling business will likely be exceeded only by the record levels of 2006. Erikson also noted that DPSs surface business posted the highest level of orders in its history, and that the Company expects 2007 to be an active year for subsea orders. V&Ms orders were very near the record levels they posted in 2006s first quarter, in spite of relative weakness in certain Canadian markets, and Compression Systems set a new record for orders.
As a result of the continued strong orders, the Companys backlog increased from $3.53 billion at year-end 2006 to nearly $3.77 billion, another new record, as of the end of the first quarter. This represents an increase of more than 40 percent from the March 31, 2006 level of $2.69 billion.
Quarters operating cash flow reflects inventory needs related to expected sales growth
Camerons cash flow from operations was $36.8 million during the first quarter. Erikson said the sequential drop in cash flow from the levels of 2006s fourth quarter reflects a decline in cash advances related to new rig construction orders and an increase in inventories to support Camerons anticipated sales growth. He noted that he expects the Company to internally fund its cash needs for the year, including the increased level of capital spending, as well as any acquisitions or stock repurchases.
Share buybacks continue, senior notes retired after quarters end
Camerons total debt, net of cash and short-term investments, at March 31, 2007 was $113.1 million, up from Camerons net cash position of approximately $81 million at December 31, 2006. The Companys net debt-to-capitalization ratio at the quarters end was approximately 6.2 percent. Erikson said that Cameron repurchased approximately 2.8 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at an average price of $53.68 per share; he also noted that as of April 16, the Company used approximately $200.0 million of cash to retire its 2.65% Senior Notes due 2007.
Full-year earnings guidance raised
Erikson said that second quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.90 to $0.95 per share, and that the Company now expects earnings per share for 2007 to be in the $3.85 to $4.00 range, up from the earlier guidance of $3.65 to $3.85. The updated full-year guidance is based, in part, on the Companys expectation that energy markets will continue to be relatively healthy, and is dependent on Camerons ability to execute on the projects and orders in current backlog.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future market strength, order levels and earnings of the Company (including second quarter and full year 2007 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding future cash flows and use of funds for capital spending, acquisitions and stock repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity. In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services. Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels based on these expectations.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
.
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
Cameron
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
($ millions)
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
($ millions)
Cameron
Orders and Backlog
($ millions)
Orders
Backlog
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 


