FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20070202072951.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
February 2, 2007, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results of the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2006. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits:
The following are being furnished as exhibits to this report:
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect (i) earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA) and (ii) earnings per diluted share excluding acquisition integration costs and the expected cost of a previously disclosed class action settlement. A reconciliation of EBITDA and earnings per diluted share excluding acquisition integration costs and the expected cost of a previously disclosed class action settlement to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release. The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions. In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community. The Company believes that earnings per diluted share excluding acquisition integration costs and the expected cost of a previously disclosed class action settlement is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Company's operating performance because it isolates the impact of the Company's integration efforts related to the acquisition of substantially all of the businesses within the Flow Control segment of Dresser, Inc. as well as the expected cost of a previously disclosed class action settlement.
 
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Date:
 
February 2, 2007
 

2007-4
Contact:
 
R. Scott Amann
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON FOURTH QUARTER EARNINGS TOTAL $0.83 PER SHARE; REVENUES, NET INCOME, ORDERS, BACKLOG ALL SET NEW RECORDS IN 2006
HOUSTON (
February 2, 2007) - Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $96.5 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2006, compared with net income in the prior years fourth quarter of $54.7 million, or $0.47 per diluted share. The fourth quarter 2006 results include after-tax charges of $4.5 million, or $0.04 per diluted share, related to the integration of the Dresser acquisition, and $6.0 million, or $0.05, related to a previously disclosed settlement of a class action lawsuit. Excluding the charges, the Companys earnings were $0.92 per diluted share.
Revenues up 46 percent for quarter, 49 percent for year
Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2006 were $1,076.7 million, up nearly 46 percent from the fourth quarter of 2005s $738.5 million, as all three business segments posted increases from year-ago levels.
 
Revenues for the year were a record $3.74 billion, up nearly 49 percent from 2005s $2.52 billion, with increases in all three segments.  Net income per diluted share for 2006 was $2.72 compared to $1.52 per diluted share for 2005. 
Cameron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that the Companys results reflect the favorable operating environment that existed throughout 2006, coupled with strong operational performance by the Company.
Orders, backlog reach record levels again
Orders booked during the fourth quarter of 2006 totaled $1.22 billion, up almost 55 percent from a year ago, as orders in each of the Companys three divisions were higher than in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Orders for full-year 2006 were a record $5.07 billion, up more than 46 percent from 2005s $3.46 billion. Erikson said that both the DPS group ($3.26 billion) and the V&M group ($1.30 billion) again posted record orders, and the Compression divisions orders increased for the fourth year in a row. In the second quarter of 2005, our total orders were a then-record $1.11 billion, Erikson said. During 2006, we surpassed that figure in every quarter, driven by strength in the drilling and surface equipment markets and the addition of the Dresser businesses.
Total backlog at year-end was $3.53 billion, over 63 percent above the $2.16 billion of a year ago, as both the DPS and V&M groups reached the highest levels in their history. Erikson noted that 2006 marked the seventh consecutive year that Camerons total year-end backlog has increased.
Dresser acquisition integration essentially complete; related charges below earlier estimates
Erikson said the integration of the businesses acquired from the Flow Control segment of Dresser, Inc. a year ago was essentially completed as of year-end. The Dresser acquisition has proven to be an unqualified success, he noted. The combination of people, product lines and manufacturing facilities has made the V&M organization the worlds leading manufacturer of energy-related valves, and the integration process to date has gone extremely well. Erikson said that the $29.6 million (pretax) of integration costs recognized in 2006 is more than $25 million below the Companys earlier estimate of approximately $55 million that was expected to be incurred.
Cash flow highest in history, balance sheet remains solid
Erikson said that Camerons cash flow from operations totaled nearly $547 million during 2006, compared with approximately $352 million in 2005. Our business segments turned in another solid cash generation performance, particularly in the fourth quarter, and we will continue to review options for reinvesting these funds in our businesses. During 2006, we were not as active on the acquisition front as in prior years, as we were focused on integrating the Dresser acquisition. Our capital spending increased to $185 million, with much of that directed toward a company-wide program to increase capacity, improve efficiency and address market needs by upgrading machine tools and manufacturing processes, Erikson said, and we spent $282.2 million to repurchase more than 6.2 million shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $45.21 per share.
Erikson noted that fourth quarter activity resulted in a significant increase in the Companys cash balance. At year-end 2006, the cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet totaled more than $1 billion, and exceeded our total debt by approximately $80.8 million, Erikson said. In 2007, we expect to again generate sufficient cash to internally fund our capital budgets, which will include continued investment in improvements to manufacturing efficiency and capacity expansion. Erikson noted that he expects capital expenditures to total approximately $225 to $250 million in the coming year. He also noted that Cameron will again be actively seeking M&A opportunities and will also use funds for share repurchases.
Earnings expected to increase again in 2007 on strength of current backlog
Erikson said the Company currently expects 2007 earnings to be approximately $3.65 to $3.85 per diluted share. Entering 2006, we noted that our results would depend on our ability to efficiently convert our record backlog into revenues and our success in integrating the Dresser businesses, Erikson said. Our people performed well on both fronts, and our challenges for 2007 are to again convert a record backlog into earnings and to build on our successes. Erikson said that the Companys full-year results will depend on overall activity in the energy markets and the spending levels of Camerons customers, especially in shorter-cycle businesses.
Erikson said Camerons first quarter 2007 earnings per diluted share are expected to be approximately $0.75 to $0.80. This guidance reflects the visibility of the projects in our current backlog, as well as our near-term expectations for activity in the oil and gas markets, he said.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future market strength, order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including first quarter and full year 2007 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding margins, profitability, capital spending, cash flow and use of funds for M&A opportunities and share repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements. Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition. Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity. In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services. Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes in cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
.
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
Cameron
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
($ millions)
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
($ millions)
Cameron
Orders and Backlog
($ millions)
Orders
Backlog
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions, except per share data)
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions)


