FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20080730073309.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
On July 30, 2008, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
   
 
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      
July 30, 2008
 
 

 
 
2008-13
R. Scott Amann
Contact:  
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.65 VS $0.54 LAST YEAR
HOUSTON (July 30, 2008) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $152.0 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, compared with net income of $123.2 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2007.  The 2007 results included a gain of $0.03 per diluted share related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
Total revenues were $1,480.6 million for the quarter, up 30 percent from 2007s $1,139.0 million, and income before income taxes was $223.5 million, up 26 percent from the $176.8 million of a year ago.  Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore saidthat the results reflect an increase of nearly 40 percent in revenues and income before income taxes for the Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) group, driven primarily by gains in the subsea and drilling product lines.  Project delivery performance in DPS exceeded our expectations, Moore said, leading to a stronger level of earnings than we had originally forecast for the quarter.
 
Record orders posted in valves, compression businesses; backlog at another new record
Total orders for the second quarter of 2008 were $1.80 billion, up 37 percent from year-ago levels.  Moore noted that both the Valves & Measurement (V&M) group and the Compression Systems division posted the highest quarterly orders in their history, and that the DPS group orders exceeded $1 billion for the third consecutive quarter.  The V&M orders reflected another strong quarter for the engineered valves business and continued strength in the other valves product lines, Moore said.  In addition, the Compression business saw record orders, driven by higher levels of international bookings in the centrifugal product line.  Meanwhile, the sequential decline in subsea bookings for DPS was due to the lack of any large project orders, and was partially offset by a strong level of orders for drilling equipment.  He noted that year-to-date orders totaled approximately $3.76 billion, up 47 percent from the $2.56 billion of the first half of 2007, and that at June 30, 2008, total backlog was a record $5.22 billion, up from the prior quarters record of $4.90 billion and the June 30, 2007 level of $3.98 billion.
Cash flow remains healthy, further investment in facilities under way
Moore said that the Companys year-to-date cash flow from operations was approximately $249 million, compared with approximately $54 million in the first half of 2007.  Higher net income and a moderation in inventory growth contributed to the improvement in cash flow, he said.  For the full year, we expect our free cash flow, or cash available after capital expenditures, to be in excess of $350 million.
Moore said that Cameron spent approximately $96 million in capital expenditures in the first half, with most of that directed toward continued plant capacity expansions and machine tool upgrades.  He noted that the Company anticipates capital expenditures to total approximately $270 million for the full year 2008, including the construction of the new surface facility in Romania.  We have also elected to make an additional investment of approximately $70 million to add capacity in our subsea facility in Malaysia, Moore said.  This will increase our effective subsea tree manufacturing capacity to more than 200 trees company-wide, reflecting the continuing active level of orders and inquiries from subsea customers.   Moore said most of the expenditures related to the Malaysian capacity increase will be made in 2009, with the expansion to be complete by early 2010.
Moore also said that the Company completed a $750 million Senior Notes offering in June, adding to Camerons balance sheet flexibility and extending maturities on the Companys outstanding debt.
Balance sheet solid, share repurchase continues
At June 30, 2008, Camerons total debt, net of cash and short-term investments, was $49.3 million, down from $179.1 million at March 31, 2008, and the Companys net debt-to-capitalization ratio was approximately 2.1 percent.
Moore said that Cameron repurchased 755,600 shares of its common stock during the quarter at an average price of $50.12 per share, and has now spent more than $154 million on share buybacks in the first half of 2008.  He said that the Company continues to consider acquisition opportunities, and also expects to pursue additional repurchases of common stock.
Full-year earnings expectations increased
Moore said that Camerons third quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of approximately $0.69 to $0.71 per share, and that full-year earnings are expected to be approximately $2.64 to $2.68 per share, compared with the Companys previous guidance of $2.50 to $2.60 per share for the year.  
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
 
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future earnings of the Company (including third quarter and full year 2008 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding future cash flows and use of funds for capital spending, acquisitions and stock repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels based on these expectations.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


