FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20080131081519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
   
On January 31, 2008, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2007.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
(c)  Exhibits:
The following are being furnished as exhibits to this report:
 
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measuresreflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
 
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:
 
January 31, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
2008-3
R. Scott Amann
Contact:   
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON FOURTH QUARTER EARNINGS TOTAL $0.54 PER SHARE;
REVENUES UP 25 PERCENT, ORDERS AND BACKLOG REACH NEW HIGHS
HOUSTON (January 31, 2008)  Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $125.9 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2007, compared with net income in the prior years fourth quarter of $96.5 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.  The fourth quarter 2007 results include a non-cash, after-tax charge of $22.1 million, or $0.10 per share, associated with the previously announced termination of the Companys U.S. pension plans, as well as a reduction in income tax expense of $7.1 million, or $0.03 per share, related to certain tax gains.  (Per share data for all prior periods have been revised to reflect a 2-for-1 stock split effective December 28, 2007.)  The fourth quarter 2006 results included after-tax charges totaling $10.5 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, related to the integration of the Dresser acquisition and a settlement of a class action lawsuit.  Excluding the above items, the Companys earnings were $0.61 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2007, up from $0.47 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2006.
Revenues up 25 percent for quarter and for full year
 
Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2007 were $1.34 billion, up 25 percent from the fourth quarter of 2006s $1.08 billion as all three business segments posted increases from year-ago levels.  Revenues for the year were a record $4.67 billion, up 25 percent from 2006s $3.74 billion with increases in all three segments.  Net income per diluted share for 2007 was $2.16 compared to $1.36 per diluted share for 2006; excluding unusual items, earnings per diluted share were $2.11 for the full year 2007 and $1.49 for 2006.
 
 
 
Cameron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Sheldon R. Erikson said that the Companys results reflect solid performances across all its businesses in generating record earnings and continued strength in orders in several of Camerons product lines.
Orders, backlog reach record levels again
 
Orders booked during the fourth quarter of 2007 were a record $1.49 billion, up more than 20 percent from a year ago, as the Drilling & Production Systems group (DPS) posted its first billion-dollar orders quarter, and Compression Systems continued to report positive year-over-year comparisons.  Valves & Measurements (V&M) fourth quarter orders were lower than a year ago, due to fewer project orders in the engineered valves and process valves businesses.
Orders for full-year 2007 were a record $5.38 billion, up six percent from 2006s $5.07 billion.  Erikson said that both DPS ($3.42 billion) and V&M ($1.32 billion) again posted record orders, and Compression Systems orders increased for the fifth consecutive year.  The growth in our consolidated orders again confirms the value of Camerons diversified product offerings, Erikson said.  Softer markets for certain product lines were more than offset by gains in orders for others during the year, pushing our year-end backlog to another record high.
Total backlog at year-end was $4.27 billion, 21 percent above the $3.53 billion of a year ago, as both DPS and V&M reached the highest levels in their history.  Erikson noted that 2007 marked the eighth consecutive year that Camerons total year-end backlog has increased.
Cash flow supporting capital reinvestment programs
 
Erikson said that Camerons cash flow from operations totaled nearly $452 million during 2007, compared with almost $547 million in 2006, and the Companys reinvestment in its business continues to be the highest priority.  We spent approximately $246 million during 2007 in capital expenditures, with the vast majority of that directed toward enhancing capacity and efficiency, Erikson said, and we repurchased 10.7 million shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $31.85 per share.  He noted that the share repurchase numbers are adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 split.
Erikson said that he expects cash flow in 2008 to once again allow the Company to internally fund its capital budgets, acquisitions and share repurchases. We currently estimate that capital expenditures will total approximately $250 to $270 million this year, including approximately $40 million related to the new surface manufacturing facility in Romania, he said.  We will also continue to consider suitable acquisition opportunities and repurchases of our own stock.
 
 
 
Initial guidance on 2008 earnings indicates increases over 2007
 
Erikson said Cameron currently expects its 2008 earnings to be in the range of $2.45 to $2.55 per diluted share, excluding any charges related to the ongoing pension plan termination.  Our initial assessment of our internal forecasts confirms that execution on another record backlog will be the primary factor in meeting our 2008 goals, Erikson said.  Our recent investments in machine tool upgrades, productivity improvements and new facilities should support a healthy increase in revenues and earnings this year.  Erikson noted that the Companys full-year results will depend on overall activity in the energy markets, the spending levels of Camerons customers and the Companys continued success in controlling and reducing its operating costs.  He also said that the remaining charges associated with the termination of the U.S. pension plans will be recognized in late 2008 or early 2009, depending on the timing of the final regulatory approval of the termination.  Erikson also said that while the Company had previously expected to incur $10 to $15 million of cash costs related to the termination, it now appears that there will be no cash required to complete the process.
Erikson said Camerons first quarter 2008 earnings per diluted share are expected to be approximately $0.50 to $0.53.  This guidance reflects the visibility of certain near-term business, our plans for delivery of projects currently in process, and our expectations for customer spending in the oil and gas markets, he said.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future market strength, customer spending and order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including first quarter and full year 2008 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding equipment deliveries, margins, profitability, the ability to control and reduce operating costs, capital spending, cash flow, costs and charges associated with termination of the U.S. pension plans and use of funds for acquisition opportunities and share repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes in cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
 
 
 
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
Cameron
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
($ millions)
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
($ millions)
 
 
 
 
Cameron
Orders and Backlog
($ millions)
Orders
Backlog
 
 
 
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions)
 
 
 
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions)
 
 


