FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20080317134448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 11, 2008, Cameron announced that it had been awarded a contract with an initial value of approximately $650 million to provide subsea systems for the initial phase of Total's Usan, a 44-well subsea development project offshore Nigeria. The press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report. Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of Cameron, dated March 11, 2008 -- Cameron Awarded $650 Million Contract for Subsea Equipment Offshore West Africa
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
2008-4
R. Scott Amann Vice President, Investor Relations (713) 513-3344
Contact:
CAMERON AWARDED $650 MILLION CONTRACT FOR SUBSEA EQUIPMENT OFFSHORE WEST AFRICA
HOUSTON (March 11, 2008)  Cameron (NYSE: CAM) has been awarded a contract with an initial value of approximately $650 million to provide subsea systems for the initial phase of Total's Usan, a 44-well subsea development project offshore Nigeria.
Under the contract, Cameron will provide subsea systems engineering and project management, along with subsea Christmas trees, production and intervention control systems, manifolds, flowline connection systems, installation support and associated spares for Total's Nigerian subsidiary, Elf Petroleum Nigeria Limited. The agreement also includes provisions for additional revenues of approximately $2 million per well associated with installation and commissioning support over the life of the contract. Initial equipment delivery and installation is slated to begin in the first quarter of 2009, with additional deliveries of subsea trees and associated equipment to continue through 2012.
Cameron President and Chief Operating Officer Jack B. Moore said, "We are pleased that Total has chosen Cameron as the systems supplier for the Usan project, further confirming our role as a significant contributor to subsea developments in the West African market."
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future revenues of the Company resulting from this contract made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The Company's actual results may differ from those described in forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations of the Company's performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company. Such factors include the Company's ability to successfully manufacture and deliver, and Total's acceptance of, the subsea systems ordered, as well as the amount of additional revenues per well that may be realized.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Company's future performance. Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
.


