FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20080626085623.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
                                           
 
On June 23, 2008, Cameron International Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement"), with UBS Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters"), in connection with the offer and sale of $450,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.375 % Senior Notes due 2018 (the "2018 Notes") and $300,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.00 % Senior Notes due 2038(the "2038 Notes" and, together with the 2018 Notes, the "Notes").  A copy of the Underwriting Agreement is attached as an exhibit to this filing and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The Notes will be issued under an Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2008 (the "Indenture"), as supplemented with respect to the 2018 Notes by the First Supplemental Indenture (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of June 26, 2008, and as further supplemented with respect to the 2038 Notes by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as June 26, 2008 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture" and, collectively with the First Supplemental Indenture, the "Supplemental Indentures"), in each case between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee.  Copies of the Indenture and the Supplemental Indentures are attached as exhibits to this filing and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The Company will pay interest on the Notes on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2009.  The 2018 Notes will mature on July 15, 2018, and the 2038 Notes will mature on July 15, 2038.  The Company may redeem some of the Notes from time to time or all of the Notes at any time at the redemption prices, plus accrued and unpaid interest, as set forth in the Supplemental Indentures.  The holders of the Notes may require the Company to redeem the Notes if the Notes are rated below investment grade following certain events that constitute a change of control of the Company.  The Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally with all of the Company's other existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated debt.  The Notes are not guaranteed by the Company's subsidiaries and will effectively rank junior to any secured debt of the Company and all existing and future debt and other liabilities of the Company's subsidiaries.
 
The offering of the Notes is being made pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-151838) of the Company.  The registration statement was automatically effective upon filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on June 23, 2008.  Certain terms of the Notes, the Indenture and the Supplemental Indentures are further described in the prospectus dated June 23, 2008 under the heading "Description of Debt Securities" and under the heading "Description of the Notes" in the preliminary prospectus supplement dated June 23, 2008 and filed with the SEC on June 23, 2008 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5) under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") and the prospectus supplement dated June 23, 2008 filed with the SEC on June 25, 2008 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) under the Securities Act, each of which is incorporated by reference herein.  The description of the Notes is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of the Indenture and the Supplemental Indentures.
 
Item 2.03
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement.
              
 
The information provided under Item 1.01 in this Current Report on Form 8-K regarding the Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Item 8.01
Other Events.
              
 
In connection with the offering of the Notes, the Company is filing certain exhibits as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K that are to be incorporated by reference in their entirety into the Company's Registration Statement.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
              
 
Exhibits.
(c)
          
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
Execution Version
 
June 23, 2008
Execution Version
June 23, 2008
 
UBS SECURITIES LLC
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED
as Representatives of the several Underwriters named in attached hereto,
Schedule A
 
c/o UBS Securities LLC 677 Washington Boulevard Stamford, CT 06901
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the underwriters listed on hereto (collectively, the "") for whom you are serving as representatives (the "") (i) $450,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.375% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "") and (ii) $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7.000% Senior Notes due 2038 (the "" and, together with the 2018 Notes, the ""), as set forth on hereto.
Company
Schedule A
Underwriters
Representatives
2018 Notes
2038 Notes
Notes
Schedule A
 
The Notes are to be issued pursuant to an indenture (the "") to be entered into on or prior to the Closing Date (as defined below), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "").  The term "Indenture," as used herein, includes one or more Supplemental Indentures (as defined in the Indenture) establishing the forms and terms of the Notes pursuant to Article Nine of the Indenture.
Indenture
Trustee
 
This Agreement, the Notes and the Indenture are hereinafter sometimes referred to collectively as the "Operative Documents."
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree as follows:
 
1.
            
Sale and Purchase
:  Upon the basis of the representations and warranties and subject to the other terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to issue and sell to the respective Underwriters and each of the Underwriters, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company (i) the aggregate principal amount of 2018 Notes set forth opposite that Underwriter's name in hereto at a price equal to 99.249% of the principal amount thereof and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of 2038 Notes set forth opposite that Underwriter's name in hereto at a price equal to 98.584% of the principal amount thereof, in each case, plus accrued interest, if any, from June 26, 2008 to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined).
Schedule A
Schedule A
 
The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make sales pursuant to a public offering of the Notes as soon after the date of this Agreement as in the judgment of the Representatives is advisable, and initially to offer the Notes on the terms and conditions set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (as hereinafter defined).
2.
            
Payment and Delivery
:  Payment of the purchase price for the Notes shall be made to the Company by federal funds wire transfer, against delivery of the Notes to you through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ("") for the respective accounts of the Underwriters.  Such payment and delivery shall be made at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on June 26, 2008 (unless another time shall be agreed to by you and the Company or unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 hereof).  The time at which such payment and delivery are to be made is hereinafter sometimes called the ""  Certificates for the Notes shall each be delivered to you in global form.  As used herein "" shall mean a day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading.
DTC
Closing Date.
business day
 
Deliveries of the documents described in Section 6 hereof with respect to the purchase of the Notes shall be made at the offices of Baker Botts L.L.P. at 910 Louisiana, Houston, Texas, at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on the date of the closing of the purchase of the Notes.
 
3.
            
Representations and Warranties of the Company
:  The Company represents and warrants to and agrees with each of the Underwriters that:
 
(a)
          
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
. The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the ""), a registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-151838) under the Securities Act, and such registration statement has become effective under the Securities Act.  "" means, collectively, the various parts of such registration statement, each as amended as of the Effective Date for such part, including the Disclosure Package (as defined below), the Prospectus and the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act to be part of such registration statement ("");  "" means, as of the Applicable Time (as defined below), the base prospectus comprising a part of the Registration Statement and the preliminary prospectus supplement to the base prospectus, subject to completion, relating to the issuance of the Notes; and the term "" means the prospectus in the form first used (or made available upon request of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the Securities Act) in connection with confirmation of sales of the Notes. "" means any date as of which any part of the Registration Statement relating to the offering of the Notes became or is deemed to have become effective under the Securities Act in accordance with the Rules and Regulations. If the Company has filed an abbreviated registration statement pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act, (a "Rule 462(b) Registration Statement"), then any reference herein to the term "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include such Rule 462(b) Registration Statement. Any reference to the "" shall be deemed to refer to the latest Preliminary Prospectus relating to the offering of the Notes included in the Registration Statement or filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act on or prior to the date hereof. Any reference in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, as of each Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be, and any reference to "amend", "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary
Commission
Securities Act
Rules and Regulations
Registration Statement
Rule 430 Information
Preliminary Prospectus
Prospectus
Effective Date
most recent Preliminary Prospectus
Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after such date under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "") that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Act
 
As used in this Agreement, "" means 4:39 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of this Agreement.  At the Applicable Time, the Company had prepared the following information (collectively, the ""): a Preliminary Prospectus dated June 23, 2008, and each "free-writing prospectus" (as defined pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act) listed on hereto as constituting part of the Disclosure Package.
Applicable Time
Disclosure Package
Schedule B
 
(b)
          
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
. The Company has been at all times since December 1, 2005 and continues to be a "well-known seasoned issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) eligible to use an "automatic shelf registration statement" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) for the registration of the Notes, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) at any such time or date. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," and the Notes, since their registration on the Registration Statement, have been and remain eligible for registration by the Company on a Rule 405 "automatic shelf registration statement." The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to the use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. To the knowledge of the Company, the Registration Statement is not the subject of a pending proceeding or examination under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the Securities Act, and the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Notes.
 
(c)
          
Automatic Effectiveness
. The Registration Statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the Rules and Regulations ("") on June 23, 2008, and any post-effective amendment thereto also became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e). No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Rule 462(e)
 
(d)
          
Form of Documents
.  As of each Effective Date and on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all material respects, and any amendment to the Registration Statement filed after the date hereof will conform in all material respects when filed, to the requirements of the Securities Act and the Rules and Regulations. The most recent Preliminary Prospectus conformed, and the Prospectus will conform, in all material respects when filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, to the requirements of the Securities Act and the Rules and Regulations. The Registration Statement and the most recent Preliminary Prospectus conformed and the Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements applicable to them under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "").
Trust Indenture Act
 
(e)
          
Registration Statement
.  The Registration Statement did not and will not, as of each Effective Date, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not
misleading; provided that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Registration Statement in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished in writing to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein, which information is specified in Section 10.
 
(f)
           
Prospectus
.  The Prospectus will not, as of its date and on the Closing Date, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished in writing to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein, which information is specified in Section 10.
 
(g)
          
Documents Incorporated by Reference
.  The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, at the time they were filed with the Commission complied, and any further documents incorporated by reference therein will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act, and they did not, and will not, when filed with the Commission, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
(h)
          
Delivery of Documents
.  Copies of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, any amendments or supplements thereto and all documents incorporated by reference therein that were filed with the Commission on or prior to the date of this Agreement (including one fully executed copy of the Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto for the Underwriters) have been delivered to the Underwriters and their counsel.
 
(i)
           
Disclosure Package
.  The Disclosure Package did not, as of the Applicable Time, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Disclosure Package in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished in writing to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriters specifically for inclusion therein, which information is specified in Section 10.
 
(j)
           
Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
.  The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Underwriters in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any "written communication" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes (each such communication by the Company or its agents and representatives (other than a communication referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below) an "") other than (i) any document not constituting a prospectus pursuant to Section 2(a)(10)(a) of the Securities Act or Rule 134 under the Securities Act, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, (iii) the Prospectus, (iv) 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
each document listed on hereto as constituting a "free-writing prospectus" (as defined pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that is part of the Disclosure Package and (v) any electronic road show or other written communications, in each case approved in writing in advance by the Representatives.  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conformed or will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the Rules and Regulations on the date of first use, and the Company has complied with any filing requirements applicable to such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus pursuant to the Rules and Regulations. The Company has not made any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus without the prior written consent of the Representatives, except as set forth on hereto. The Company has retained and will retain in accordance with the Rules and Regulations all Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses that were not required to be filed pursuant to the Rules and Regulations (it being understood that, as of the date hereof, the Company has not retained any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for the three year period required thereby). Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus does not and will not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package, including any document incorporated therein and any prospectus supplement deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified. The foregoing sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished in writing to the Company by the Underwriters through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein, which information consists solely of the information specified in Section 10.
Schedule B
Exhibit D
 
(k)
          
Principal Subsidiaries
. The subsidiaries of the Company (the ""), other than Cameron Limited, Cameron Canada Corporation, Cameron France, S.A.S., Cameron (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Cameron Italy S.R.L., Cameron do Brasil Ltda., Cameron Technologies US, Inc. and Cameron Romania S.A. (each, a ""), (i) do not, individually or in the aggregate, account for more than 25% of the Company and its subsidiaries' customer sales, (ii) do not, individually or in the aggregate, provide more than 25% of the Company and its subsidiaries' income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of any change in accounting principles, and (iii) do not, individually or in the aggregate, account for more than 25% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries after the elimination of intercompany items.  Except as set forth in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each Principal Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable.  All shares of capital stock or other equity interests of the Principal Subsidiaries that are owned of record directly by the Company or indirectly by a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company are owned free and clear of any lien, security interest, pledge, charge, encumbrance, mortgage, equity, claim or adverse interest of any nature (each a ""); none of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of any such Principal Subsidiary was issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights or the charter or bylaws or other organizational documents of the Company or such Principal Subsidiary or any agreement to which the Company or such Principal Subsidiary is a party.  Except as set forth in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, there are no outstanding subscriptions, rights, warrants or options to acquire, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock or other equity interest of any of the Principal Subsidiaries.
subsidiaries
Principal Subsidiary
Lien
(l)
           
Formation and Qualification
. The Company and each Principal Subsidiary has been duly incorporated, organized or formed as a corporation, partnership or other entity, is validly existing in good standing under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation, organization or formation and has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as it is currently being conducted as described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted.  The Company and each Principal Subsidiary is duly registered and qualified and in good standing as a foreign corporation, partnership or other entity authorized to do business in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such registration or qualification, except where the failure to be so registered or qualified would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.  A "" means any material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or other), properties, results of operations or earnings of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
 
(m)
         
Power and Authority
. The Company has all requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Operative Documents and to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents to be consummated on its part and, without limitation, the Company has all requisite power and authority to issue, sell and deliver the Notes.
 
(n)
          
Authorization of Agreement
. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and when executed and delivered by the Company and by the Representatives will be a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
 
(o)
          
Authorization of Indenture
. The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered by the Company (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee), will constitute a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.  The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and, when it became effective and on the Closing Date, did and will comply in all material respects to the Trust Indenture Act and the rules thereunder.
 
(p)
          
Authorization of the Notes
. The Notes have been duly authorized for issuance and sale to the Underwriters by the Company and, when executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered by the Company against payment by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Notes will have been validly issued and delivered, will be valid and binding obligations of the Company, will be in the form contemplated by, and entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture and will be enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.
(q)
          
Description of the Notes and the Indenture
. The Notes and the Indenture will conform in all material respects to each description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and will be in substantially the respective forms filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as exhibits to the Registration Statement.
 
(r)
           
No Default Under Agreements or Instruments
. None of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary is (i) in violation of its charter, bylaws or other constitutive and governing documents, (ii) in default (or, with notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any bond, debenture, note, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, or other evidence of indebtedness, or any lease, license, franchise agreement, authorization, permit, certificate or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of their assets or properties is subject (collectively, ""), or (iii) in violation of any law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court with jurisdiction over any of them or any of their assets or properties or other governmental or regulatory authority, agency or other body, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) herein, would not reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.  There exists no condition that, with notice, the passage of time or otherwise, would constitute a default by the Company or any Principal Subsidiary under any such document or instrument or result in the imposition of any penalty or the acceleration of any indebtedness, other than penalties, defaults or conditions that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Agreements and Instruments
 
(s)
          
No Default or Violations
. The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, does not or will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to, (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, (ii) any Agreements and Instruments, (iii) any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective assets or properties or (iv) any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective assets or properties, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) through (iv), would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (A) have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(t)
           
No Further Requirements
. No approval, authorization, consent or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any federal, state, local or foreign court or governmental agency, body or administrative agency, or of or with the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, or approval of stockholders of the Company, is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby, except (i) such as have been or will be obtained or made on or prior to the
Closing Date in connection with the issuance of the Notes, (ii) such as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws, or (iii) those for which the failure to obtain would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (A) have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents. No consents or waivers from any other person or entity are required for the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or any of the other Operative Documents or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, other than such consents and waivers as have been obtained or will be obtained prior to the Closing Date, except for those consents or waivers, the failure of which to obtain would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (A) have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(u)
          
Litigation
. Except as described in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or Prospectus, there is (i) no action, suit, claim, investigation or proceeding before or by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, board, authority, body or official, domestic or foreign, now pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened or contemplated to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which the business, assets or property of such entity is subject, (ii) no statute, rule, regulation or order that has been enacted, adopted or issued or, to the knowledge of the Company, that has been proposed by any governmental body or agency, domestic or foreign, (iii) no injunction, restraining order or order of any nature by a federal or state court or foreign court of competent jurisdiction to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that would (A) in the case of clause (i) above, if determined adversely to the Company or such subsidiary, either individually or in the aggregate, (1) have a Material Adverse Effect or (2) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents and (B) in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, either individually or in the aggregate, (1) have a Material Adverse Effect or (2) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.  Every request of any securities authority or agency of any jurisdiction for additional information with respect to the Notes that has been received by the Company or its counsel prior to the date hereof has been, or will prior to the Closing Date be, complied with in all material respects.
 
(v)
          
Environmental Laws
. Except as described in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or Prospectus, the Company and each Principal Subsidiary (i) is in compliance with, or not subject to costs or liabilities under, any and all local, state, provincial, federal and foreign laws, regulations, rules of common law, orders and decrees, as in effect as of the date hereof, and any present judgments and injunctions issued or promulgated thereunder relating to pollution or protection of public and employee health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants applicable to it or its business or operations or ownership or use of its property (""), (ii) possesses all permits, licenses or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws, and is in compliance with all terms and conditions of any such permit, license or other approval, and (iii)  has not received notice of any actual or potential liability for the investigation or remediation of any disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants,
Environmental Laws
except in each case where liability or other consequences arising out of the matters referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) above would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  There has been no spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release of any kind onto any property now or previously owned or leased by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or into the environment surrounding such property of any solid wastes or hazardous substances due to or caused by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except for any such spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  There are no costs or liabilities associated with Environmental Laws (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties) which would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  For purposes of this provision, the terms "hazardous substances" and "solid wastes" shall have the meanings specified in any applicable Environmental Laws.
 
(w)
         
Title to Property
. Except as otherwise set forth in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or Prospectus, or such as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all property (real and personal) described in or incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus as being owned by it, free and clear of all Liens, except Liens for taxes not yet due and payable and Liens described in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or Prospectus.  All the property described in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein, as being held under lease by the Company or any of its subsidiaries is held by such entity under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(x)
           
Tax Filings
. The Company and each subsidiary has filed on a timely basis all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income, franchise and other tax returns (other than returns being contested in good faith or as to which the failure to file would not have a Material Adverse Effect) and have paid all taxes shown thereon as due (other than those being contested in good faith or which are currently payable without penalty or interest), and the Company has no knowledge of any tax deficiency that has been or might be asserted against the Company or any subsidiary except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect; all material tax liabilities are adequately provided for within the financial statements of the Company in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("").
GAAP
 
(y)
          
Investment Company Act
. None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Disclosure Package or Prospectus will be, required to register as an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" incorporated in the United States within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(z)
           
Internal Controls
. The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act and has been designed by the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or under their supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Since December 31, 2007, there have been no significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company's internal controls over financial reporting, except as disclosed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 or the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. Based on the evaluation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and other than as has been disclosed to the Company's auditors and the audit committee of the board of directors of the Company, the Company is not aware of (i) any significant deficiency in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting that is reasonably likely to adversely affect its ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data or any material weaknesses in internal controls; or (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the internal controls of the Company.
 
(aa)
        
Disclosure Controls
. The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act; such disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known to the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer by others within those entities; and such disclosure controls and procedures are and were as of December 31, 2007 and March 31, 2008, effective.
 
(bb)
        
Insurance
. Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) the Company and each of its subsidiaries are insured by insurers of recognized financial responsibility against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary in the businesses in which they are engaged, (ii) all policies of insurance insuring the Company or any its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect and (iii) the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments.  There are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause.  Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for, except in each case as disclosed in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or the Prospectus.  Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or the Prospectus.
 
(cc)
        
No Liabilities or Material Adverse Change
. Since December 31, 2007, except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or Prospectus, (i) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has (A) incurred any liabilities or obligations, direct or contingent, that would have a Material Adverse Effect, or (B) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (ii) there has been no material adverse change or any development involving a prospective material adverse change in the business, properties, management, condition (financial or otherwise), earnings or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and (iii) there has been no dividend or
distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock except in a manner consistent with past practices.
 
(dd)
        
No Violation
. None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (or any agent thereof acting on their behalf other than the Underwriters, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has taken, and none of them will take (other than the Underwriters, as to whom the Company makes no representation), any action that would cause this Agreement or the issuance or sale of the Notes to violate Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
 
(ee)
        
Independent Accountants
. Ernst & Young LLP, who has certified or shall certify the audited financial statements included or to be included as part of or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus is an independent accountant within the meaning of the Securities Act.  The historical financial statements and the notes and schedules thereto included in or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position and results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries at the respective dates and for the respective periods indicated.  Such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods presented (except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package or Prospectus, including the documents incorporated by reference therein).  The other financial and statistical information and data included in or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus are accurately presented in all material respects and prepared on a basis consistent with the financial statements and the books and records of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
(ff)
          
Intellectual Property
. Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess the right to use all patents, trademarks (both registered and unregistered), trademark registrations, service marks, service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, licenses, inventions, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights described in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus as being owned by them or any of them or necessary for the conduct of their respective businesses, and the Company is not aware of any claims to the contrary or any challenge by any other entity to the rights of the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to any of the foregoing.
 
(gg)
        
ERISA
. Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries has fulfilled its obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("") and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to each "plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA and such regulations and published interpretations) in which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate and each such plan is in compliance with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and such regulations and published interpretations.  Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries have not incurred any unpaid liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (other than for the payment of premiums in the ordinary course) or to any such plan under Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA
 
(hh)
        
No Labor Disputes
. Except as set forth in the Disclosure Package or Prospectus, (i) no labor problem or dispute with any of the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is threatened or imminent, and (ii) to the knowledge of the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, there is no existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers, that, in the case of clause (i) or (ii), would have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(ii)
          
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
. The principal executive officer and principal financial officer of the Company have made all certifications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or any related rules and regulations promulgated by the Commission, and the statements contained in any such certification are true and correct in all material respects.
 
(jj)
          
Statistical Information
. The statistical and market-related data and forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) included in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus are based on or derived from sources that the Company believes to be reliable and accurate in all material respects and represent its good faith estimates that are made on the basis of data derived from such sources.
 
(kk)
        
OFAC
. The Company is subject to requirements of the sanctions program implemented and administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (""), including without limitation, 31 CFR Parts 500-600 ("").  The Company consults from time to time with knowledgeable counsel regarding its compliance with the OFAC Sanctions Program.  The Company has undertaken commercially reasonable efforts to comply with the OFAC Sanctions Program.  None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC, and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering to lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any such person in violation of the OFAC Sanctions Program.
OFAC
OFAC Sanctions Programs
 
(ll)
          
No Unlawful Payments
. 
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or other person associated with or acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has (i) used any corporate funds for any unlawful contribution, gift, entertainment or other unlawful expense relating to political activity; (ii) made any direct or indirect unlawful payment to any foreign or domestic government official or employee from corporate funds; (iii) violated or is in violation of any provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977; or (iv) made any bribe, rebate, payoff, influence payment, kickback or other unlawful payment; except, in each case, as would not reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(mm)
      
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws
.
  The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in material compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign
Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Money Laundering Laws
 
(nn)
        
No Distribution of Other Offering Materials
.  The Company has not distributed or, prior to the completion of the distribution of the Notes, will not distribute, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to which the Representatives have consented in accordance with Section 3(j) and the Issuer Free Writing Prospectus set forth on hereto and any other materials, if any, permitted by the Securities Act, including Rule 134 of the Rules and Regulations.
Exhibit D
 
(oo)
        
No Omitted Descriptions; Legal Descriptions
. There are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened or contemplated, against the Company or its Principal Subsidiaries, or to which the Company or its Principal Subsidiaries is a party, or to which any of their respective properties or assets is subject, that are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus but are not described as required, and there are no agreements, contracts, indentures, leases or other instruments that are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement that are not described or filed as required by the Securities Act or the Rules and Regulations or the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder.
 
(pp)
        
No Stabilizing Transactions
.  The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
 
(qq)
        
Rank
.  The Notes constitute unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and rank with all other unsecured and unsubordinated debt obligations of the Company.
pari passu
 
In addition, any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries and delivered to the Underwriters or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company or Principal Subsidiary, as the case may be, as to matters covered thereby, to the Underwriters.
 
4.
            
Certain Covenants of the Company
:  The Company hereby agrees:
 
(a)
          
Preparation of Prospectus and Registration Statement
.  (i) To prepare the Prospectus in a form approved by the Underwriters and to file such Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act and within the time period required by Rule 430B under the
Securities Act; (ii) to make no further amendment or any supplement to the Registration Statement or to the Prospectus except as permitted herein; (iii) to advise the Underwriters, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or becomes effective or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus has been filed and to furnish the Underwriters with copies thereof; (iv) to advise the Underwriters promptly after it receives notice thereof of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, of the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for any such purpose or of any request by the Commission for the amending or supplementing of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information; and (v) in the event of the issuance of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or suspending any such qualification, to use promptly its best efforts to obtain its withdrawal.
 
(b)
          
Final Term Sheet and Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
.  (i) To prepare a final term sheet, containing solely a description of final terms of the Notes and the offering thereof, in the form approved by the Representatives and attached as hereto, and to file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act within the time required by such Rule; and (ii) not to make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus without the prior written consent of the Representatives
Exhibit D
 
(c)
          
Copies of Registration Statements
.  To furnish promptly to the Underwriters and to counsel for the Underwriters, upon request, a signed copy or conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed with the Commission, and each amendment thereto filed with the Commission, including all consents and exhibits filed therewith.
 
(d)
          
Exchange Act Reports
.  To file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Notes.
 
(e)
          
Copies of Documents to the Underwriters
.  To deliver promptly to the Underwriters such number of the following documents as the Underwriters shall reasonably request: (i) each Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus and any amended or supplemented Prospectus, (ii) each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and (iii) any document incorporated by reference in any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus; and, if the delivery of a Prospectus is required at any time after the date hereof in connection with the offering or sale of the Notes or any other securities relating thereto and if at such time any events shall have occurred as a result of which the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made when such Prospectus is delivered, not misleading, or, if for any other reason it shall be necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference therein in order to comply with the Securities Act or the Exchange Act or with a request from the Commission, to notify the Underwriters immediately thereof and to promptly
prepare and, subject to Section 4(f) hereof, file with the Commission an amended Prospectus or supplement to the Prospectus that will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance. In any such case, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such filings and effectiveness.
 
(f)
           
Filing of Amendment or Supplement
.  To file promptly with the Commission any amendment to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any supplement to the Prospectus that may, in the judgment of the Company or the Underwriters, be required by the Securities Act or the Exchange Act or requested by the Commission.  Prior to filing with the Commission any amendment to the Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424 of the Rules and Regulations, or any Prospectus, to furnish a copy thereof to the Underwriters and counsel for the Underwriters and not to file any such document to which the Underwriters shall reasonably object after having been given reasonable notice of the proposed filing thereof unless the Company is required by law to make such filing.
 
(g)
          
Reports to Security Holders
.  As soon as practicable after the Closing Date, to make generally available to the Company's security holders (as provided in Rule 158(b) under the Securities Act) an earnings statement of the Company (which will satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act) covering a period of twelve months beginning after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as defined in Rule 158(c) under the Securities Act) as soon as is reasonably practicable after the termination of such twelve month period but not later than fifteen months after the end of the Company's current fiscal quarter.
 
(h)
          
Blue Sky Laws
.  Promptly to take from time to time such actions as the Underwriters may reasonably request to qualify the Notes for offering and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may designate and to continue such qualifications in effect for so long as required for the resale of the Notes; and to arrange for the determination of the eligibility for investment of the Notes under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may reasonably request; provided that the Company shall not be obligated to qualify as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction.
 
(i)
           
Application of Proceeds
.  To apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
(j)
           
Investment Company
.  To take such steps as shall be necessary to ensure that the Company shall not become an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act.
 
(k)
          
Retention of Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
.  To retain in accordance with the Rules and Regulations all Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses not required to be filed pursuant to the Rules and Regulations; and if at any time after the date hereof and prior to the Closing Date, any events shall have occurred as a result of which any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as then amended or supplemented, would conflict with the information in the Registration Statement, the most recent Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or, when considered together with the most recent Preliminary Prospectus, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the
statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or, if for any other reason it shall be necessary to amend or supplement any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to notify the Representatives and, upon their reasonable request or as required by the Rules and Regulations, to file such document and to prepare and furnish without charge to each Underwriter as many copies as the Representatives may from time to time reasonably request of an amended or supplemented Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that will correct such conflict, statement or omission or effect such compliance.
 
(l)
           
Expenses
.  Whether or not the transactions contemplated in this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company will pay or cause to be paid all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including, without limitation, (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and the Company's accountants in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes and all other fees and expenses in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and all amendments and supplements thereto, including all printing costs associated therewith, and the furnishing of copies thereof to the Underwriters and to dealers (including costs of mailing and shipment), (ii) all costs related to the preparation, issuance, execution, authentication and delivery of the Notes, (iii) all costs related to the transfer and delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters, including any transfer or other taxes payable thereon, (iv)  all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Notes for offering and sale under state laws (including the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters relating to the preparation, printing or reproduction, and delivery of any preliminary or supplemental blue sky or legal investment memorandum and such registration and qualification), (v) any fees payable to investment rating agencies with respect to the rating of the Notes, (vi) the costs and charges of the Trustee and any transfer agent, registrar or depositary, (vii) the fees and expenses, if any, incurred in connection with the admission of the Notes for trading on any appropriate market system, (viii) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the offering of the Notes, including, without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations with the prior approval of the Company, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of any aircraft chartered in connection with the road show, and (ix) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section 4(l).
 
(m)
         
Disposition of Debt Securities
.  The Company will not, without the prior written consent of each Representative, offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge, or otherwise dispose of, (or enter into any transaction that is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition (whether by actual disposition or effective economic disposition due to cash settlement or otherwise) by the Company or any affiliate of the Company or any person in privity with the Company or any affiliate of the Company) directly or indirectly, including the filing (or participation in the filing) of a registration statement with the Commission in respect of, or establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, any debt securities (excluding commercial paper or bank borrowings) issued or guaranteed by the Company (other than the
Notes) or publicly announce an intention to effect any such transaction, for a period of 90 days from the date hereof.
 
(n)
          
Compliance
.  The Company will comply in all material respects with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the officers and directors of the Company, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
 
5.
            
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
:  If the Notes are not delivered for any reason other than the termination of this Agreement pursuant to clause (iii), (iv) or (v) of Section 7(b) or Section 8(d) hereof or the default by one or more of the Underwriters in its or their respective obligations hereunder, the Company shall, in addition to paying the amounts described in Section 4(l) hereof, reimburse the Underwriters for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
 
6.
            
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
:  The several obligations of the Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company on the date hereof, the Applicable Time and on the Closing Date.  Additionally, the several obligations of the Underwriters are subject to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
 
(a)
          
The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date, an opinion of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P., counsel for the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, addressed to the Underwriters and dated the date of the Closing Date.
 
(b)
          
The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date, an opinion of William C. Lemmer, Senior Vice President and General Counsel to the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, addressed to the Underwriters and dated the Closing Date.
 
(c)
          
The Representatives shall have received on the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date from Ernst & Young LLP customary comfort letters dated, respectively, as of the date of this Agreement and the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters in the forms and substance heretofore approved by the Representatives and Baker Botts L.L.P., counsel to the Underwriters.
 
(d)
          
The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date, the opinion of Baker Botts L.L.P., counsel for the Underwriters, dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to you.
 
(e)
          
No amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or any document that upon filing with the Commission would be incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, shall at any time have been made or filed to which the Underwriters have reasonably objected in writing.
 
(f)
           
The Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission in accordance with Section 4(a) of this Agreement; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectuses or any Issuer
Free Writing Prospectuses or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceeding for that purpose shall have been initiated or threatened by the Commission; any request of the Commission for inclusion of additional information in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or otherwise shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Underwriters; and the Commission shall not have notified the Company of any objection to the use of the form of the Registration Statement.
 
(g)
          
The Underwriters shall not have discovered and disclosed to the Company on or prior to the Closing Date that the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package, or any amendment or supplement thereto, contains an untrue statement of a fact which, in the opinion of the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters, is material or omits to state any fact which, in the opinion of the Representatives or such counsel, is material and is required to be stated therein or in the documents incorporated by reference therein or is necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
 
(h)
          
Between the time of execution of this Agreement and the Closing Date, there shall not have occurred or become known any material and unfavorable change, financial or otherwise, in the business, properties, management, conditions or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, that in the judgment of the Underwriters makes it impracticable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes on the terms and in the manner contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
(i)
           
The Company will, on the Closing Date and, if applicable at the additional Closing Date, deliver to you a certificate of its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer in the form attached as hereto.
Exhibit C
 
(j)
           
You shall have received copies, duly executed by the Company and the other parties thereto, of the Indenture and the Notes.
 
(k)
          
The Company shall have furnished to you such other documents and certificates as to the accuracy and completeness of any statement in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus as of the Closing Date as you may reasonably request.
 
(l)
           
Between the Applicable Time and the Closing Date there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of (i) any intended or potential downgrading or (ii) any review or possible change that does not indicate an improvement, in the rating accorded any securities of or guaranteed by the Company by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. or Standard & Poor's Rating Services.
 
(m)
         
All agreements set forth in the representation letter from the Company to DTC relating to the approval of the Notes by DTC for "book entry" transfer shall have been complied with.
 
7.
            
Effective Date of Agreement; Termination
:  (a) This Agreement shall become effective when the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement.
(b)
          
The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives with notice to the Company at any
time prior to the Closing Date, if prior to such time (i) the Company shall have failed, refused or been unable to perform in any material respect any agreement on its part to be performed under this Agreement when and as required, (ii) any other condition to the obligations of the Underwriters under this Agreement to be fulfilled by the Company pursuant to Section 6 is not fulfilled when and as required in any material respect, (iii) trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market shall have been suspended or limitations or minimum prices shall have been established on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market, (iv) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared either by the United States or New York State authorities, or if there has been a material disruption in securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (v) the United States shall have declared war in accordance with its constitutional processes or there shall have occurred any material outbreak or escalation of hostilities or terrorism or other national or international calamity or crisis of such magnitude in its effect on the financial markets of the United States as, in the judgment of the Representatives to make it impracticable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus and this Agreement.
 
(c)
          
If the Representatives elect to terminate this Agreement as provided in this Section 7, the Company shall be notified as provided for herein.
 
(d)
          
If the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes, as contemplated by this Agreement, is not carried out by the Underwriters for any reason permitted under this Agreement or if such sale is not carried out because the Company shall be unable to comply and does not comply with any of the terms of this Agreement, the Company shall not be under any obligation or liability under this Agreement (except to the extent provided in Sections 4(l), 5 and 9 hereof), and the Underwriters shall be under no obligation or liability to the Company under this Agreement (except to the extent provided in Section 9 hereof) or to one another hereunder.
 
8.
            
Increase in Underwriters' Commitments
:  (a) Subject to Sections 6 and 7 hereof, if any Underwriter shall default in its obligation to take up and pay for the Notes to be purchased by it hereunder on the Closing Date (otherwise than for a failure of a condition set forth in Section 6 hereof or a reason sufficient to justify the termination of this Agreement under the provisions of Section 7 hereof) (the "") and if the aggregate principal amount of the Defaulted Notes which all Underwriters so defaulting shall have agreed but failed to take up and pay for at such time does not exceed 10% of the total aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased at such time, the non-defaulting Underwriters (including the new Underwriters, if any, substituted in the manner set forth below) shall take up and pay for (in addition to the aggregate principal amount of Notes they are obligated to purchase at such time pursuant to Section 1 hereof) the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Notes agreed to be purchased by all such defaulting Underwriters at such time, as hereinafter provided.  Such Defaulted Notes shall be taken up and paid for by such non-defaulting Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, in such amount or amounts as you may designate with the consent of each Underwriter so designated or, in the event no such designation is made, such Notes shall be taken up and paid for by all non-defaulting Underwriters pro rata in proportion to the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite the names of such non-defaulting Underwriters in .
Defaulted Notes
Schedule A
 
(b)           If a new Underwriter or Underwriters are substituted by the Underwriters or by the Company for a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters in accordance with the foregoing provision, the Company or you shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date for a period not exceeding five business days in order that any necessary changes in the Registration Statement and Prospectus and other documents may be effected.
 
(c)           The term "" as used in this Agreement shall refer to and include any Underwriter substituted under this Section 8 with like effect as if such substituted Underwriter had originally been named in hereto.
new Underwriter
Schedule A
 
(d)           If the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Notes which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed to purchase on the Closing Date, exceeds 10% of the total aggregate principal amount of Notes which all Underwriters agreed to purchase hereunder at such time, and if neither the non-defaulting Underwriters nor the Company shall make arrangements within the five business day period stated above for the purchase of all the Notes which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed to purchase hereunder at such time, this Agreement, shall terminate without further act or deed and without any liability with respect thereto on the part of the Company to any Underwriter and without any liability with respect thereto on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter to the Company.  Nothing in this section, and no action taken hereunder, shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
 
9.
            
Indemnity and Contribution
:
 
(a)           The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, directors and officers, and any person who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and the successors and assigns of all the foregoing persons (each, an "") from and against any loss, damage, expense, liability or claim (including the reasonable cost of investigation) which, jointly or severally, any such Underwriter Indemnified Party may incur under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the common law or otherwise, insofar as such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein not misleading, except insofar as any such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus relying upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of any Underwriter to the Company expressly for use with reference to such Underwriter therein or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact in connection with such information required to be stated in the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or necessary to make such statements not misleading.
Underwriter Indemnified Party
 
(b)           Each Underwriter severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company, its directors and officers and any person who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and the successors and assigns of all the foregoing persons (each, a "") from and against any loss, damage, expense, liability or claim (including the reasonable cost of investigation) which, jointly or severally, the Company or any such person may incur under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the common law or otherwise, insofar as such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in and in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of such Underwriter through the Representatives to the Company expressly for use with reference to such Underwriter therein or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact in connection with such information required to be stated in the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or necessary to make such statements not misleading.
Company Indemnified Party
 
(c)           If any action, suit or proceeding (each, a "") is brought against any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 9, such person (the "") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing of the institution of such Proceeding and such Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense of such Proceeding, including the employment of counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Party and payment of all fees and expenses; provided, however, that the omission to so notify such Indemnifying Party shall not relieve such Indemnifying Party from any liability which it may have to such Indemnified Party or otherwise, except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party has been prejudiced in any material respect by such omission to so notify.  Such Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such case, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party unless the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by such Indemnifying Party in connection with the defense of such Proceeding or such Indemnifying Party shall not have employed counsel to have charge of the defense of such Proceeding within 30 days of the receipt of notice thereof or such Indemnified Party shall have reasonably concluded upon written advice of counsel that there may be defenses available to it that are different from, additional to, or in conflict with those available to such Indemnifying Party (in which case such Indemnifying Party shall not have the right to direct that portion of the defense of such Proceeding on behalf of such Indemnified Party, but such Indemnifying Party may employ counsel and participate in the defense thereof but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnifying Party), in any of which events such reasonable fees and expenses shall be borne by such Indemnifying Party and paid as incurred (it being understood, however, that such Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel in any one Proceeding or series of related Proceedings together with reasonably necessary local counsel representing the Indemnified Parties who are parties to such Proceeding). An Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any settlement of any such Proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with the written consent of such Indemnifying Party, such Indemnifying Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless an Indemnified Party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Party shall have requested an Indemnifying Party to reimburse such Indemnified Party for fees
Proceeding
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the second sentence of this paragraph, then such Indemnifying Party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any Proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 business days after receipt by such Indemnifying Party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such Indemnifying Party shall not have reimbursed such Indemnified Party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement and (iii) such Indemnified Party shall have given such Indemnifying Party at least 30 days' prior notice of its intention to settle. An Indemnifying Party shall not, without the prior written consent of any Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened Proceeding in respect of which such Indemnified Party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such Proceeding and does not include an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of such Indemnified Party.
 
(d)           If the indemnification provided for in this Section 9 is held to be unavailable to an Indemnified Party under subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 9 in respect of any losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims referred to therein, then each applicable Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Notes or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportion as the total proceeds from the offering (net of the Underwriter's discounts and commissions but before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.  The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in this subsection shall be deemed to include any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating, preparing to defend or defending any Proceeding.
 
(e)           The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in subsection (d) above.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes underwritten by such Underwriter and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damage which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay
 
by reason of such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several in proportion to the respective underwriting commitments and not joint. The remedies provided for in this Section 9 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Party at law or in equity.
 
(f)            The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 9 and the covenants, warranties and representations of the Company contained in this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, its partners, directors and officers or any person (including each partner, officer or director of such person) who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, or by or on behalf of the Company, its directors and officers or any person who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and shall survive the issuance and delivery of the Notes.  In addition, the agreements contained in Sections 4(l), 4(m), 5, 9, 10, and 13 shall survive the termination of this Agreement, including pursuant to Section 7.
 
10.
          
Underwriters' Information
.  The statements set forth in the last paragraph of the cover page of the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and Prospectus and under the caption "Underwriting" in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and in the Prospectus, (i) the first sentence under the subcaption "Commissions and Expenses", (ii) the first sentence of the first and third paragraphs under the subcaption "Price Stabilization, Short Positions" and (iii) the paragraph under the sub caption "Relationships" constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Underwriters expressly for use in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus as such information is referred to in Sections 3 and 9 herein.
 
11.
          
Company Information
.  Each Underwriter severally and not jointly agrees that such Underwriter, without the prior written consent of the Company, has not used or referred to publicly and shall not use or refer to publicly any "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 under the Securities Act, other than a free writing prospectus containing the information contained in the final term sheet prepared and filed pursuant to Section 4(b) of this Agreement; provided that the prior written consent of the parties hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of hereto. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representatives or the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "" The Company agrees that (x) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and (y) it has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.
Exhibit D
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus.
 
12.
          
Notices
:  Except as otherwise herein provided, all statements, requests, notices and agreements shall be in writing or by facsimile and, if to the Underwriters, shall be sufficient in all respects if delivered or sent to c/o J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 270 Park Ave. New York, NY 10017, Attention High Grade Syndicate Desk, facsimile no. (212) 834-6081 and UBS
Securities LLC, 677 Washington Boulevard, Stamford, CT 06901 (telephone: (203) 719-1088, facsimile no. (203) 719-0495) Attention: Fixed Income Syndicate, and, if to the Company, shall be sufficient in all respects if delivered or sent to the Company at the offices of the Company at 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700, Houston, Texas 77027, Attention:  General Counsel (telephone: (713) 513-3300, telecopy: (713) 513-3456.
 
13.           : THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES. THE SECTION HEADINGS IN THIS AGREEMENT HAVE BEEN INSERTED AS A MATTER OF CONVENIENCE OF REFERENCE AND ARE NOT A PART OF THIS AGREEMENT.
Governing Law and Construction
 
14.           .  Except as set forth below, no proceeding may be commenced, prosecuted or continued in any court other than the courts of the State of New York located in the City and County of New York or in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, which courts shall have jurisdiction over the adjudication of such matters, and the Company hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts and personal service with respect thereto.  The Company hereby consents to personal jurisdiction, service and venue in any court in which any proceeding arising out of or in any way relating to this Agreement is brought by any third party against any of the Underwriters.  The Company hereby waives all right to trial by jury in any proceeding (whether based upon contract, tort or otherwise) in any way arising out of or relating to this Agreement.  The Company agrees that a final judgment in any such proceeding brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and may be enforced in any other courts in the jurisdiction of which the Company is or may be subject, by suit upon such judgment.  The Company hereby appoints, without power of revocation, CT Corporation System, 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 as its agent to accept and acknowledge on its behalf service of any and all process which may be served in any proceeding in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement.
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
15.           :  The Agreement herein set forth has been and is made solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and, to the extent provided in Section 9 hereof, the controlling persons, directors and officers referred to in such section, and their respective successors, assigns, executors and administrators.  No other person, partnership, heirs, personal representatives, association or corporation (including a purchaser, as such purchaser, from any of the Underwriters) shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement.
Parties at Interest
 
16.           .  The Company hereby acknowledges that the Underwriters are acting solely as Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Notes.  The Company further acknowledges that the Underwriters are acting pursuant to a contractual relationship created solely by this Agreement entered into on an arm's length basis, and in no event do the parties intend that the Underwriters act or be responsible as a fiduciary to the Company, its management, stockholders or creditors or any other person in connection with any activity that the Underwriters may undertake or have undertaken in furtherance of the purchase and sale of the Company's securities, either before or after the date hereof.  The Underwriters hereby expressly disclaim any fiduciary or similar obligations to the Company, either in
No Fiduciary Relationship
connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any matters leading up to such transactions, and the Company hereby confirms its understanding and agreement to that effect.  The Company and the Underwriters agree that they are each responsible for making their own independent judgments with respect to any such transactions and that any opinions or views expressed by the Underwriters to the Company regarding such transactions, including, but not limited to, any opinions or views with respect to the price or market for the Company's securities, do not constitute advice or recommendations to the Company.  The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of any fiduciary or similar duty to the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any matters leading up to such transactions.
 
17.           .  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  Delivery of an executed counterpart by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
Counterparts
 
18.           .  This Agreement shall be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company and their successors and assigns and any successor or assign of any substantial portion of the Company's and any of the Underwriters' respective businesses and/or assets.
Successors and Assigns
 
 
If the foregoing correctly sets forth the understanding between the Company and the Underwriters, please so indicate in the space provided below for the purpose, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall constitute a binding agreement between the Company and the Underwriters, severally.
 
 
Accepted and agreed to as of the date first above written, on behalf of itself and the other several Underwriters named in hereto:
Schedule A
 
 
The Final Term Sheet attached to the Agreement as .
Exhibit D
 
Exhibit A
 
The opinion of Vinson & Elkins LLP, counsel for the Company (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Underwriting Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Underwriting Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i)            The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
(ii)           The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act").  The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
(iii)          The Notes have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and, when duly authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
(iv)          The Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (except as to the financial statements and schedules and other financial and accounting data contained or incorporated by reference therein, as to which such counsel need express no belief) appear on their face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(v)           The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, does not and will not (i) violate the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of the Company, (ii) violate or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to (A) any Agreements and Instruments identified on Annex A hereto, (B) to the knowledge of such
counsel, any law, statute, rule or regulation of the United States or the states of Texas or New York applicable to the Company or any subsidiary or its respective assets or properties typical, in such counsel's experience, for transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents or (C) to the knowledge of such counsel, any judgment, order or decree of any United States, Texas or New York governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary or their respective assets or properties that, except as, in the case of clauses (A) and (C), would not, either individually or in the aggregate, interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(vi)          The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act; and any required filing of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act and of the final term sheet pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act has been made in the manner and within the time periods required by such rule. To our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission.
 
(vii)         No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any court or governmental agency of the United States or the states of New York or Texas is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Operative Documents, except (a) such as have been obtained or made on or prior to the date hereof, (b) such as may be required under state securities and blue sky laws, or (c) those for which the failure to obtain or make would not, either individually or in the aggregate (1) have a Material Adverse Effect or (2) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(viii)        The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the net proceeds thereof as described in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(ix)           Each document filed under the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data included therein, as to which such counsel need not comment) when they were filed with the Commission, appear on their face to have complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(x)            The statements in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Certain Other Indebtedness", "Description of the Notes," "Description of Debt Securities," and "Certain United States Federal Income Tax
Considerations," insofar as such statements purport to describe or summarize the legal matters and documents therein, accurately summarize in all material respects such legal matters and documents.
 
(xi)           In addition, such counsel shall state that they have participated in discussions with your representatives, representatives of the Company and its counsel and independent registered public accounting firm concerning the preparation of the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus.  Such counsel shall state that, although they are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any of the statements in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus (except to the extent stated in paragraphs (x) above), no facts have come to their attention that cause such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of its most recent Effective Date, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (ii) the Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the Applicable Time (as defined below), included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (iii) the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the date of the Prospectus, or as of the Closing Date, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  As used herein, "Applicable Time" means 4:39 p.m., New York City time, on June 23, 2008.
 
Exhibit B
 
The opinion of William C. Lemmer, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Underwriting Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Underwriting Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i)            The Company (a) has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation; (b) has the corporate power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as described in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted; and (c) is duly qualified or licensed to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(ii)           Each of Cameron Limited, Cameron Canada Corporation, Cameron France, S.A.S., Cameron (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Cameron Italy S.R.L., Cameron do Brasil Ltda., Cameron Technologies US, Inc. and Cameron Romania S.A.  (each, a "Principal Subsidiary") (a) is validly existing as a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other form of entity, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation or formation; (b) has the requisite power and authority to own its property and to conduct it business as described in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and Prospectus, and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted; and (c) is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(iii)          The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Operative Documents and to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents to be consummated on its part.
 
(iv)          The statements in "Part II, Item 1  Legal Proceedings" of the Company's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, insofar as such statements constitute summaries of the legal proceedings referred to therein, fairly present the information called for with respect to such legal proceedings and fairly summarize the matters referred to therein.
 
(v)           The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, does not or will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, (ii) to the knowledge of such counsel, any Agreements and Instruments filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 and the Current Reports on Form 8-K since January 1, 2008, together with any amendments to such Agreements or Instruments, (iii) to the knowledge of such counsel, any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or its respective assets or properties typical, in such counsel's experience, for transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents or (iv) to the knowledge of such counsel, any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or their respective assets or properties, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iv), would not (A) reasonably be expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(vi)          Neither the Company nor any of the Principal Subsidiaries is in breach or violation of, or in default under (nor has any event occurred which with notice, lapse of time, or both would result in any breach or violation of, constitute a default under or give the holder of any indebtedness (or person acting on such holder's behalf), the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or part of such indebtedness under) its respective charter or by-laws or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, bank loan or credit agreement or other evidence of indebtedness, or any license, lease, contract or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them or their respective properties may be bound or affected, or under any federal, state, local or foreign law, regulation or rule or any decree, judgment or order applicable to the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries, except as would not (A) reasonably be expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(vii)         After due inquiry, such counsel does not know of any legal or governmental proceedings pending or threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that would be required to be described in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and are not so described or of any statutes, regulations, contracts or other documents that are required to be described in the
 
Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or to be filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits to the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that are not described, filed or incorporated as required.
 
(viii)        In addition, such counsel shall state that he has participated in discussions with your representatives, representatives of the Company and its counsel and independent registered public accounting firm concerning the preparation of the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  Such counsel shall state that, although he is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any of the statements in the Registration Statement, Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (except to the extent stated in paragraph (iv) above), no facts have come to his attention that cause such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of its most recent Effective Date, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading (ii) the Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the Applicable Time (as defined below), included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (iii) the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the date of the Prospectus, or as of the Closing Date, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  As used herein, "Applicable Time" means 4:39 p.m., New York City time, on June 23, 2008.
 
Exhibit C
 
 
 
Exhibit D
 
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433 Registration No. 333-151838 June 23, 2008
 
 
 
Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.
 
You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. collect at 1-212-834-4533, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll-free at 1-866-718-1649 or UBS Securities LLC toll-free at 1-877-827-6444 ext 561-3884.

Exhibit 4.1
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
AND
 
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, TRUSTEE INDENTURE DATED AS OF JUNE 26, 2008
DEBT SECURITIES (SENIOR DEBT)
Cameron International Corporation
 
Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2008
Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
INDENTURE dated as of June 26, 2008, between CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700, Houston, Texas 77027, and WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, a national banking corporation, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"), the office of the Trustee at which at the date hereof its corporate trust business is principally administered being 201 Main Street, Third Floor, Fort Worth, Texas 76102.
 
RECITALS OF THE COMPANY
 
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as in this Indenture provided.
 
This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder that are required to be part of this Indenture and, to the extent applicable, shall be governed by such provisions.
 
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
 
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows:
 
ARTICLE ONE
 
DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION
 
Section 101.
        
Definitions.
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
 
the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular;
(1)
          
 
all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States at the date of such computation; and
(2)
          
 
the words "herein, " "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
(3)
          
 
Certain terms, used principally in Article One, are defined in Section 102.
 
"Act," when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 105.
 
"Additional Amounts" means any additional amounts that are required by the express terms of a Security or by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, under circumstances specified therein or pursuant thereto,
to be paid by the Company with respect to certain taxes, assessments or other governmental charges imposed on certain Holders and that are owing to such Holders.
 
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
 
"Agent Members" has the meaning specified in Section 203.
 
"Attributable Indebtedness" means with respect to a Sale-Leaseback Transaction, at the time of determination, the lesser of:
 
the present value of the total net amount of rent required to be paid under the lease involved in such Sale-Leaseback Transaction during the remaining term thereof (including any renewal term exercisable at the lessee's option or period for which such lease has been extended), discounted at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of such lease or, if not practicable to determine such rate, the weighted average interest rate per annum borne by the Securities Outstanding compounded semiannually; and
(1)
  
 
if the obligation with respect to the Sale-Leaseback Transaction constitutes an obligation that is required to be accounted for as a capital lease obligation in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the amount equal to the capitalized amount of such obligation determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and included in the financial statements of the lessee.
(2)
  
 
For purposes of the foregoing definition, rent will not include amounts required to be paid by the lessee, whether or not designated as rent or additional rent, on account of or contingent upon maintenance and repairs, insurance, taxes, assessments, utilities, water rates, operating charges, labor costs and similar charges. In the case of any lease that is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, the total net amount of rent shall be the lesser of the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or the total net amount of rent determined assuming no such termination.
 
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person, which may include the Company, authorized by the Trustee to act on behalf of the Trustee pursuant to Section 614 to authenticate Securities of one or more series.
 
"Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in the place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day.
 
"Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board.
 
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Business Day," when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
 
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
 
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
 
"Company Request" and "Company Order" mean, respectively, a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Controller, an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
"Consolidated Net Tangible Assets" means the aggregate amount of assets included in the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries less (i) current liabilities of the Company and its Subsidiaries, and (ii) the net book amount of all intangible assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
"Conversion Event" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
 
"Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee in Fort Worth, Texas at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date hereof is that indicated in the introductory paragraph of this Indenture, except that with respect to the presentation of Securities for payment or for registration of transfer and exchange such term shall also mean the office of the Trustee in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
 
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
 
"Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person designated as Depositary by the Company pursuant to Section 301 with respect to the Securities of such series until a successor Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
 
"Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
 
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
 
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any successor statute.
 
"Exchange Rate" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
 
"Holder," when used with respect to any Security, means the Person in whose name the Security is registered in the Security Register.
"Indebtedness" means (i) long-term liabilities representing borrowed money or purchase money obligations as shown on the liability side of a balance sheet, other than liabilities evidenced by obligations under leases, (ii) indebtedness secured by any Lien existing on property owned subject to that Lien, whether or not the same indebtedness has been assumed and (iii) contingent obligations in respect of, or to purchase or otherwise acquire, any indebtedness of others described in the foregoing clauses (i) or (ii) above, including guarantees and endorsements, other than for purposes of collection in the ordinary course of business of any indebtedness.
 
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301 and the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument.
 
"Interest," when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity.
 
"Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
 
"Judgment Currency" has the meaning specified in Section 506.
 
"Lien" means any mortgage, pledge, security interest, encumbrance, lien, charge or adverse claim affecting title or resulting in an encumbrance against real or personal property or a security interest of any kind (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement or lease in the nature thereof or any filing or agreement to file a financing statement as debtor under the Uniform Commercial Code or any similar statute other than to reflect ownership by a third party of property leased to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries under a lease that is not in the nature of a conditional sale or title retention agreement).
 
"Maturity," when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise.
 
"Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Treasurer, Assistant Controller or Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee, which certificate shall comply with Section 103.
 
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for or an employee of the Company, rendered, if applicable, in accordance with Section 314(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, which opinion shall comply with Section 103.
 
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which is issued at a price lower than the principal amount payable upon the Stated Maturity thereof and which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon redemption thereof or upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
 
"Outstanding," when used with respect to Securities of a series, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
 
Securities of that series theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(i)
           
Securities of that series for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore irrevocably deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; and
(ii)
          
 
Securities of that series that have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
(iii)
         
 
provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, or whether a quorum is present at a meeting of Holders of Securities, (a) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be the principal amount thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination if the Maturity thereof were accelerated on such date pursuant to Section 502, (b) the principal amount of a Security denominated in a foreign currency shall be the U. S. dollar equivalent, determined by the Company on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the U. S. dollar equivalent, determined on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the amount determined as provided in (a) above), of such Security and (c) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver or upon any such determination as to the presence of a quorum, only Securities which the Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor.
 
"Paying Agent" means any Person, which may include the Company, authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on or Additional Amounts with respect to any one or more series of Securities on behalf of the Company.
 
"Permitted Liens" means :
 
any statutory or governmental Lien or a Lien arising by operation of law, or any mechanics', repairmen's, materialmen's, supplier's, carrier's, landlord's, warehousemen's or similar Lien incurred in the ordinary course of business which is not yet due or is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and any undetermined Lien which is incidental to construction, development, improvement or repair;
(1)
          
 
the right reserved to, or vested in, any municipality or public authority by the terms of any right, power, franchise, license, permit or by any provision of law, to purchase or to recapture or to designate a purchaser of, any property;
(2)
          
 
Liens for taxes and assessments which are for the current year, and are not at the time delinquent or are delinquent but the validity of which are being contested at the time by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in good faith;
(3)
          
 
Liens on, or to secure the performance of, leases;
(4)
          
Liens upon, or deposits of, any assets in favor of any surety company or clerk of court for the purpose of obtaining indemnity or stay of judicial proceedings;
(5)
          
 
Liens upon property or assets acquired or sold by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries resulting from the exercise of any rights arising out of defaults on receivables;
(6)
          
 
Liens incurred in the ordinary course of business in connection with workmen's compensation, unemployment insurance, temporary disability, social security, retiree health or similar laws or regulations or to secure obligations imposed by statute or governmental regulations;
(7)
          
 
Liens upon or deposits of any assets to secure performance and Liens in favor of issuers of surety or performance bonds, letters of credit, banker's acceptances or guarantees pursuant to the request of and for the account of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries; and
(8)
          
 
Liens arising or imposed by reason of any attachment, judgment, decree or order of any regulatory, governmental or court authority or proceeding, so long as any proceeding initiated to review same shall not have been terminated or the period within which such proceeding may be initiated shall not have expired, or such attachment, judgment, decree or order shall otherwise be effectively stayed.
(9)
          
 
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity of any kind.
 
"Place of Payment," when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series are payable as specified in accordance with Section 301, subject to the provisions of Section 1002.
 
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security.
 
"Principal Property" means any real property, manufacturing plant, warehouse, office building or other physical facility, or any other like depreciable assets owned or leased by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, except for any such property which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors as set forth in a Board Resolution adopted in good faith, is not material to the total business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; provided, that any such individual property shall be deemed not be a Principal Property (without the need for any board resolution) if such property does not have a fair value in excess of 0.25% of the total assets included in the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company and its Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, provided further that the aggregate fair value of properties excluded pursuant to the preceding proviso shall not exceed $100,000,000.
 
"Redemption Date," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to the terms of the Security and this Indenture.
 
"Redemption Price," when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to the terms of the Security and this Indenture.
 
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301, or, if not so specified,
the last day of the calendar month preceding such Interest Payment Date if such Interest Payment Date is the fifteenth day of the calendar month or the fifteenth day of the calendar month preceding such Interest Payment Date if such Interest Payment Date is the first day of a calendar month, whether or not such day shall be a Business Day.
 
"Required Currency" has the meaning specified in Section 506.
 
"Responsible Officer," when used with respect to the Trustee, means the chairman or any vice chairman of the board of directors, the chairman or any vice chairman of the executive committee of the board of directors, the president, any vice president, the secretary, any assistant secretary, any trust officer or assistant trust officer or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
 
"Sale-Leaseback Transaction" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries of any Principal Property, which Principal Property has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Subsidiary to such Person, other than:
 
any such transaction involving a lease for a term (including renewals or extensions exercisable by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries) of not more than three years;
(1)
          
 
any such transaction between the Company and any of its Subsidiaries or between any of the Company's Subsidiaries; or
(2)
          
 
any such transaction entered into at the time of, or within 12 months after the latest of, the acquisition, the completion of construction or improvement, or the commencement of commercial operation of the Principal Property.
(3)
          
 
"Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture.
 
"Security Custodian" means, with respect to Securities of a series issued in global form, the Trustee for Securities of such series, acting in its capacity as custodian with respect to the Securities of such series, or any successor entity thereto.
 
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
 
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
 
"Stated Maturity," when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable.
 
"Subsidiary" of a Person means (i) a corporation, a majority of whose Voting Stock is at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by that Person, by one or more subsidiaries of that Person or by that Person and one or more subsidiaries of that Person, (ii) a partnership in which that Person or a subsidiary of that Person is, at the date of determination, a general or limited partner of that partnership, but only if that Person or its subsidiary is entitled to receive more than 50% of the assets of that partnership upon its dissolution or more than 50% of the net income of that partnership, or (iii) any other Person, other than a corporation or partnership, in which that Person, directly or indirectly, at the date of determination, has (a)  a majority ownership interest or (b) the power to elect or direct the election of a majority of the directors (or persons performing similar functions) of that Person and control the policies of that Person.
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
 
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed, except as provided in Section 905; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act: means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act as so amended.
 
"United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia) and its "possessions," which include Puerto Rico, the U. S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
 
"United States Alien" means any Person who, for United States federal income tax purposes, is a foreign corporation, a non-resident alien individual, a non-resident alien or foreign fiduciary of an estate or trust, or a foreign partnership.
 
"U. S. Government Obligations" has the meaning specified in Section 401.
 
"Vice President," when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president."
 
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any Person, capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
 
"Wholly Owned Subsidiary" means a corporation or other Person that is an entity all the outstanding Voting Stock (other than any directors' qualifying shares) of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more other Wholly Owned Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Wholly Owned Subsidiaries.
 
"Yield to Maturity," when used with respect to any Original Issue Discount Security, means the yield to maturity, if any, set forth on the face thereof.
 
Section 102.
        
Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the Trust Indenture Act, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture. The following Trust Indenture Act terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
"Bankruptcy Act" means the United States Bankruptcy Code of or Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended from time to time.
 
"Indenture securities" means the Securities.
 
"Indenture security holder" means a Holder.
 
"Indenture to be qualified" means this Indenture.
 
"Indenture trustee" or "institutional trustee" means the Trustee.
"Obligor" on the indenture securities means the Company or any other obligor on the Securities.
 
All terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the Trust Indenture Act, defined by the Trust Indenture Act by reference to another statute or defined by Commission rule under the Trust Indenture Act and not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them therein.
 
Section 103.
        
Compliance Certificates and Opinions.
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Indenture, upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any (including any covenants the compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any (including any covenants the compliance with which constitutes a condition precedent) have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
 
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include:
 
a statement that each Person signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(1)
          
 
a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(2)
          
 
a statement that, in the opinion of each such Person, such Person has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such Person to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and
(3)
          
 
a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such Person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
(4)
          
 
Section 104.
        
Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee.
 
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
 
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters is or are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
 
Section 105.
        
Acts of Holders; Record Dates.
 
Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the Holders of a specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Securities may take action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any direction, notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action) the fact that at the time of taking any such action the Holders of such specified percentage have joined therein may be evidenced (i) by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by Holders in Person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing, (ii) by the record of the Holders voting in favor thereof at any meeting of Holders duly called and held in accordance with Article Thirteen hereof, (iii) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of Holders or (iv) in the case of Securities evidenced by a global Security, by any electronic transmission or other message, whether or not in written format, that complies with the Depositary's applicable procedures. Such evidence (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the relevant Holders. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or the holding of any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 1306.
(a)
          
 
The Company may set in advance a record date for purposes of determining the identity of Holders of Securities entitled to vote or consent to any action by vote or consent authorized or permitted under this Indenture. If a record date is fixed, those Persons who were Holders of Outstanding Securities at such record date (or their duly designated proxies), and only those Persons, shall be entitled with respect to such Securities to take such action by vote or consent or to revoke any vote or consent previously given, whether or not such Persons continue to be Holders after such record date. Promptly after any record date is set pursuant to this paragraph, the Company, at its own expense, shall cause notice thereof to be given to the Trustee in writing in the manner provided in Section 106 and to the relevant Holders as set forth in Section 107.
 
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of his authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner which the Trustee deems sufficient.
(b)
          
 
The principal amount and serial numbers of Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register.
(c)
          
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security. Any Holder or subsequent Holder may revoke the request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or other Act as to his Security or portion of his Security; provided, however, that such revocation shall be effective only if the Trustee receives the notice of revocation before the date the Act becomes effective.
(d)
          
Section 106.
        
Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company.
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
 
the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Department, or
(1)
          
 
the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company, Attention: Corporate Secretary.
(2)
          
 
Section 107.
        
Notice to Holders; Waiver.
 
Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Securities of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at the address of such Holder as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice.
 
In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service, or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice to Holders of Securities by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. In any case in which notice to Holders of Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder of a Security, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Securities.
 
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
 
Section 108.
        
Conflict With Trust Indenture Act.
 
If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with any provision of the Trust Indenture Act (or conflicts with another provision hereof which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act), such provision of the Trust Indenture Act (or such other provision hereof which is required by the Trust Indenture Act) shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act which may be so modified or excluded, the former provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded.
 
Section 109.
        
Effect of Headings and Table of Contents.
 
The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
Section 110.
        
Successors and Assigns.
 
All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
Section 111.
        
Separability Clause.
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 112.
        
Benefits of Indenture.
 
Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder, any Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent and Security Registrar, and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
 
Section 113.
        
Governing Law.
 
This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
Section 114.
        
Legal Holidays.
 
In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities) payment of principal and interest (and premium and Additional Amounts, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date or Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity, provided that no interest shall accrue with respect to such payment for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
 
Section 115.
        
Corporate Obligation.
 
No recourse may be taken, directly or indirectly, against any incorporator, subscriber to the capital stock, stockholder, officer, director or employee of the Company or the Trustee or of any predecessor or successor of the Company or the Trustee with respect to the Company's obligations on the Securities or the obligations of the Company or the Trustee under this Indenture or any certificate or other writing delivered in connection herewith.
 
ARTICLE TWO SECURITY FORMS
 
Section 201.
        
Forms Generally.
 
The Securities of each series shall be in fully registered form and in substantially such form or forms (including temporary or permanent global form) as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form as permitted by Section 304, the form thereof shall be established as provided in the preceding sentence. A copy of the Board Resolution establishing the form or forms of Securities of any series (or any such temporary global Security) shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery
of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities (or any such temporary global Security).
 
The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution thereof.
 
Section 202.
        
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication.
 
The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
 
"This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
Section 203.
        
Securities in Global Form.
 
If Securities of a series are issuable in global form, as contemplated by Section 301, then, notwithstanding clause (10) of Section 301 and the provisions of Section 302, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee (i) in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified in such Security or in a Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304, or (ii) otherwise in accordance with written instructions as is customary for the Depositary for such Security, from such Depositary or its nominee on behalf of any Person having a beneficial interest in such Security. Subject to the provisions of Section 303 and, if applicable, Section 304, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified in such Security or in the applicable Company Order. With respect to the Securities of any series that are represented by a Security in global form, the Company authorizes the execution and delivery by the Trustee of a letter of representations or other similar agreement or instrument in the form customarily provided for by the Depositary appointed with respect to such global Security. Any Security in global form may be deposited with the Depositary or its nominee, or may remain in the custody of the Security Custodian therefor pursuant to a FAST Balance Certificate Agreement or similar agreement between the Trustee and the Depositary. If a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 103 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
 
Members of, or participants in, the Depositary ("Agent Members") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Security issued in global form held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Security Custodian as its custodian, or under such global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Security Custodian and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the registered holder of a Security of any series issued in global form may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any Person, including Agent Members and Persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action that a Holder of such series is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities of such series and (ii) nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Security Custodian or any agent of the Company or the
Security Custodian, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or shall impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a beneficial owner of any Security.
 
Notwithstanding Section 305, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. If the beneficial owners of interests in a permanent global Security are entitled to exchange such interest for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of that series in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Security shall be surrendered from time to time in accordance with instructions given to the Trustee and the Depositary (which instructions shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 103 or be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) by the Depositary or such other depositary as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent global Security, a like aggregate principal amount of other definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged; provided, however, that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any Securities of that series are to be redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date. Promptly following any such exchange in part, such permanent global Security marked to evidence the partial exchange shall be returned by the Trustee to the Depositary or such other depositary referred to above in accordance with the instructions of the Company referred to above. If a definitive Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
 
Notwithstanding Section 305, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, transfers of a Security issued in global form shall be limited to transfers of such global Security in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Interests of beneficial owners in a Security issued in global form may be transferred in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary. Securities of any series shall be transferred to all beneficial owners of a global Security of such series in exchange for their beneficial interests in that global Security if, and only if, (1) (A) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the global Security of such series or (B) the Depositary has ceased to be a clearing agency registered under applicable law, and in either case (A) or (B) a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, (2) an Event of Default has occurred with respect to such series and is continuing and the Security Registrar has received a request from the Depositary or the Trustee to issue Securities of such series in lieu of all or a portion of that global Security (in which case the Company shall deliver Securities of such series within 30 days of such request) or (3) the Company determines not to have the Securities of such series represented by a global Security.
 
In connection with any transfer of a portion of the beneficial interest in a global Security of any series to beneficial owners pursuant to this Section 203, the Security Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the global Security of that series in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the global Security of that series to be transferred, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication
and delivery of Securities of that series shall authenticate and deliver, one or more Securities of the same series of like tenor and amount.
 
In connection with the transfer of all the beneficial interests in a global Security of any series to beneficial owners pursuant to this Section 203, the global Security shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, to each beneficial owner identified by the Depositary in exchange for its beneficial interest in the global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of Securities of that series of authorized denominations.
 
Neither the Company nor the Trustee will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to, or payments made on account of, Securities of any series by the Depositary, or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records of the Depositary relating to such Securities. Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be liable for any delay by the related global Security Holder or the Depositary in identifying the beneficial owners, and each such Person may conclusively rely on, and shall be protected in relying on, instructions from such global Security Holder or the Depositary for all purposes (including with respect to the registration and delivery, and the respective principal amounts, of the Securities to be issued).
 
The provisions of the last sentence of Section 303 shall apply to any Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 103 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of Section 303.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 201 and Section 307, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 308 and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or of the Trustee shall treat a Person as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a global Security as shall be specified in a written statement, if any, of the Holder of such global Security, which is produced to the Security Registrar by such Holder.
 
Global Securities may be issued in either temporary or permanent form. Permanent global Securities will be issued in definitive form.
 
ARTICLE THREE THE SECURITIES
 
Section 301.
        
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series.
 
The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
 
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series,
 
the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
(1)
          
any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, Section 305, Section 306, Section 906 or Section 1007);
(2)
          
 
whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form, and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 203, and the Depositary for any global Security or Securities of such series;
(3)
          
 
the manner in which any interest payable on a temporary global Security on any Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 304;
(4)
          
 
the date or dates on which the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Securities of the series is payable or the method of determination thereof;
(5)
          
 
the rate or rates, or the method of determination thereof, at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, whether and under what circumstances Additional Amounts with respect to such Securities shall be payable, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and, if other than as set forth in Section 101, the Regular Record Date for the interest payable on any Securities on any Interest Payment Date;
(6)
          
 
the place or places where, subject to the provisions of Section 1002, the principal of (and premium, if any), any interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(7)
          
 
the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have that option, and the manner in which the Company must exercise any such option if different from those set forth herein;
(8)
          
 
the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices (whether denominated in cash, securities or otherwise) at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased in whole or in part pursuant to such obligation;
(9)
          
 
the denomination in which any Securities of that series shall be issuable, if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof;
(10)
        
 
the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) if other than Dollars, or the form, including equity securities, other debt securities (including Securities) warrants or any other securities or property of the Company or any other Person, in which payment of the principal of (and premium, if any), any interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(11)
        
 
if the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with Respect to the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in a currency or currencies (including composite currencies) other than that in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency or currencies (including composite currencies) in which payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on,
(12)
        
and any Additional Amounts with respect to, Securities of such series as to which such election is made shall be payable, and the periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made;
 
if the amount of payments of principal of (and premium, if any), any interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to any commodities, currencies or indices, values, rates or prices or any other index or formula, the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(13)
        
 
if other than the entire principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502;
(14)
        
 
any changes or additions to Article Four, including the addition of additional covenants that may be subject to the covenant defeasance option pursuant to Section 401;
(15)
        
 
any deletions or modifications of or additions to the definitions set forth in Section 101, the Events of Default set forth in Section 501 or covenants of the Company set forth in Article Ten pertaining to the Securities of the series;
(16)
        
 
if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for equity securities, other debt securities (including Securities), warrants or any other securities or property of the Company or any other Person, at the option of the Company or the Holder or upon the occurrence of any condition or event, the terms and conditions for such conversion or exchange; and
(17)
        
 
any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture except as permitted by Section 901(9)).
(18)
        
 
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 303) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
 
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action together with such Board Resolution shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
 
Section 302.
        
Denominations.
 
The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series denominated in Dollars shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, any Securities of a series denominated in a currency other than Dollars shall be issuable in denominations that are the equivalent, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for such currency, as such rate is reported or otherwise made available by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, on the applicable issue date for such Securities, of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof.
 
Section 303.
        
Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating.
 
The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its President, its Treasurer or one of its Vice Presidents. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities
may be manual or facsimile. The seal of the Company, if any, may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
 
Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities.
 
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities as in this Indenture provided and not otherwise.
 
If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions or any other method permitted by Section 201 and Section 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating,
 
if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(a)
          
 
if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
(b)
          
 
that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as such enforcement is subject to the effect of (i) bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent conveyance, reorganization or other laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights and (ii) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforcement is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
(c)
          
 
If such form or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
 
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security, a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 309 together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 103 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Section 304.
        
Temporary Securities.
 
Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers of the Company executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.
 
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
 
All Outstanding temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder.
 
Section 305.
        
Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange.
 
The Company shall cause to be kept for each series of Securities at one of the offices or agencies maintained pursuant to Section 1002 a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities of such series. The Trustee is hereby initially appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided.
 
Except as set forth in Section 203 or as may be provided pursuant to Section 301, upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount.
 
At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series and of like tenor, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchange pursuant to Section 304, Section 906 or Section 1107 not involving any transfer.
 
The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of such series selected for redemption and ending at the close of business on the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
 
Section 306.
        
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities.
 
If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and upon its written request the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding.
 
In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security.
 
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fee and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
 
Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder.
 
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities.
 
Section 307.
        
Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved.
 
Interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest. Unless otherwise provided with respect to the Securities of any series, payment of interest may be made at the option of the Company by check mailed or delivered to the address of any Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
 
Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such
Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
 
The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of such series at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. The Trustee may, in its discretion, in the name and at the expense of the Company, cause a similar notice to be published at least once in an Authorized Newspaper, but such publication shall not be a condition precedent to the establishment of such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2).
(1)
          
 
The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
(2)
          
 
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture, upon registration of transfer of, in exchange for or in lieu of, any other Security, shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
 
Section 308.
        
Persons Deemed Owners.
 
Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 305 and Section 307) interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
Section 309.
        
Cancellation.
 
All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and all
Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of as directed by a Company Order; provided that the Trustee shall not be required to destroy such Securities.
 
Section 310.
        
Computation of Interest.
 
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a year of twelve 30-day months.
 
Section 311.
        
CUSIP Numbers.
 
The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.
 
ARTICLE FOUR SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE; DEFEASANCE
 
Section 401.
        
Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture; Defeasance.
 
The following provisions of this Section 401 shall apply to the Securities of each series except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for Securities of such series:
 
If at any time the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Securities of any series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than any Securities of such series which shall have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which shall have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306 and Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Company as provided in Section 1003) or all Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation shall have become due and payable, or are by their terms to become due and payable within one year or are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption, and the Company shall deposit with the Trustee as trust funds the entire amount in cash sufficient to pay at the date of Stated Maturity of the principal amount of the Securities or upon redemption all Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including principal and premium, if any, and interest due or to become due on such date of Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be, and if in either case the Company shall also pay or cause to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company, then this Indenture shall cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of such Securities herein expressly provided for) with respect to the Securities of such series, and the Trustee, on demand of the Company accompanied by an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel and at the cost and expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction of and discharging this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series.
(a)
          
 
Subject to Sections 401(c), 401(d) and 404, the Company at any time may terminate, with respect to Securities of a particular series, all its obligations under the Securities of such series and this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series ("legal defeasance option") or the operation of any covenant or additional Event of Default made applicable to such Securities pursuant to Section 301(15) ("covenant defeasance option"). The Company may
(b)
          
exercise its legal defeasance option notwithstanding its prior exercise of its covenant defeasance option.
 
If the Company exercises its legal defeasance option, payment of the Securities of the defeased series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default. If the Company exercises its covenant defeasance option, payment of the Securities of the defeased series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default specified in Section 501(4) or 501(7).
 
Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth herein and upon request of the Company, the Trustee shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of those obligations that the Company terminates.
 
Notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, the Company's obligations in Sections 305, 306, 401, 403, 404, 610(e), 607, 701, 1002 and 1003 shall survive until the Securities of the defeased series have been paid in full. Thereafter, the Company's obligations in Sections 607 and 403 shall survive.
(c)
          
 
The Company may exercise its legal defeasance option or its covenant defeasance option with respect to Securities of a particular series only if:
(d)
          
 
the Company irrevocably deposits in trust with the Trustee money or U.S. Government Obligations for the payment of principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, the Securities of such series to the date of Stated Maturity of the principal amount of the Securities or the Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(i)
                                    
 
the Company delivers to the Trustee a certificate from a nationally recognized firm of independent accountants expressing their opinion that the payments of principal and interest when due and without reinvestment on the deposited U.S. Government Obligations plus any deposited money without investment will provide cash at such times and in such amounts as will be sufficient to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest and any Additional Amounts when due on all the Securities of such series to such date of Stated Maturity or the Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(ii)
                                 
 
91 days pass after the deposit is made and during the 91-day period no Default specified in Section 501(5) or (6) occurs which is continuing at the end of the period;
(iii)
                              
 
no Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit and after giving effect thereto;
(iv)
                             
 
the deposit does not constitute a default under any other agreement binding on the Company;
(v)
                                
 
the Company delivers to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the trust resulting from the deposit does not constitute, or is qualified as, a regulated investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940;
(vi)
                             
 
in the event of the legal defeasance option, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that the Company has received from the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the
(vii)
                          
applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred;
 
in the event of the covenant defeasance option, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred; and
(viii)
                       
 
the Company delivers to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent to the defeasance and discharge of the Securities of such series as contemplated by this Article Four have been complied with.
(ix)
                               
 
Before or after a deposit, the Company may make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the redemption of Securities of such series at a future date in accordance with Article Eleven.
 
For the purposes of this Indenture, "U. S. Government Obligations" means direct non-callable obligations of, or non-callable obligations the payment of principal of and interest on which is guaranteed by, the United States of America, or to the payment of which obligations or guarantees the full faith and credit of the United States of America is pledged, or beneficial interests in a trust the corpus of which consists exclusively of money or such obligations or a combination thereof.
 
Section 402.
        
Application of Trust Money.
 
Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money or U.S. Government Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest and any Additional Amounts for the payment of which such money has been deposited with the Trustee.
 
Section 403.
        
Indemnity for U.S. Government Obligations.
 
The Company shall pay and shall indemnify the Trustee and the Holders against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against deposited U.S. Government Obligations or the principal and interest received on such U.S. Government Obligations.
 
Section 404.
        
Reinstatement.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or U. S. Government Obligations deposited with respect to Securities of any series in accordance with Section 401 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Company's obligations under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series and the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 401 until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money or U. S. Government Obligations in accordance with Section 401; provided, however, that if the Company has made any payment of principal of (or premium, if any), or
interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Securities because of the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money or U. S. Government Obligations held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
 
ARTICLE FIVE REMEDIES
 
Section 501.
        
Events of Default.
 
"Event of Default," wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body), unless it is either inapplicable to a particular series or it is specifically deleted or modified in or pursuant to the supplemental indenture or Board Resolution establishing such series of Securities or in the form of Security for such series:
 
default in the payment of any interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security of that series when such interest or Additional Amounts become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(1)
          
 
default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
(2)
          
 
default in the deposit of any mandatory sinking fund payment, when and as due by the terms of a Security of that series and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(3)
          
 
default in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of one or more series of Securities other than that series), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series having the benefit of such covenant or warranty a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(4)
          
 
the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable Federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or
(5)
          
 
the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the
(6)
          
filing by it, of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable Federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
 
any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series.
(7)
          
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 501, if the principal of (and premium, if any) or any interest on, or Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security is payable in a currency or currencies (including a composite currency) other than Dollars and such currency (or currencies) is (or are) not available to the Company for making payment thereof due to the imposition of exchange controls or other circumstances beyond the control of the Company (a "Conversion Event"), the Company will be entitled to satisfy its obligations to Holders of the Securities by making such payment in Dollars in an amount equal to the Dollar equivalent of the amount payable in such other currency, as determined by the Company by reference to the noon buying rate in The City of New York for cable transfers for such currency ("Exchange Rate"), as such Exchange Rate is certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the date of such payment, or, if such rate is not then available, on the basis of the most recently available Exchange Rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 501, any payment made under such circumstances in Dollars where the required payment is in a currency other than Dollars will not constitute an Event of Default under this Indenture.
 
Promptly after the occurrence of a Conversion Event with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall give written notice thereof to the Trustee; and the Trustee, promptly after receipt of such notice, shall give notice thereof in the manner provided in Section 107 to the Holders of such series. Promptly after the making of any payment in Dollars as a result of a Conversion Event with respect to Securities of any series, the Company shall give notice in the manner provided in Section 107 to the Holders of such series, setting forth the applicable Exchange Rate and describing the calculation of such payments.
 
Section 502.
        
Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to any Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of (i) the series affected by such default (in the case of an Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3) or (7) of Section 501) or (ii) all series of Securities affected by such default (subject to the immediately following sentence, in the case of an Event of Default described in clause (4) of Section 501) may declare the principal amount (or, if any such Securities are Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of all of the Securities of the series affected by such default or all series, as the case may be, together with any accrued but unpaid interest or any premium thereon or Additional Amount with respect thereto, to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount), together with any accrued but unpaid interest or any premium thereon or Additional Amount with respect thereto, shall become immediately due and payable. If an Event of Default described in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501 shall occur, the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series, together with any accrued but unpaid interest or any premium thereon or Additional Amount with respect thereto, shall become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
ipso facto
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing to the extent elected by the Company, the sole remedy for an Event of Default relating to the failure by the Company to comply with the provisions of Section 704 shall, for the first 120 days after the occurrence of such an Event of Default, consist exclusively of the right to receive additional interest ("Special Interest") on the Securities at an annual rate equal to 0.50% of the principal amount of the Securities.  Such Special Interest shall be paid semi-annually in arrears, with the first semi-
annual payment due on the first Interest Payment Date following the date on which such Special Interest began to accrue on the Securities.  Special Interest shall accrue on all Outstanding Securities from and including the date on which an Event of Default relating to a failure to comply with the provisions of Section 704 shall first occur to but not including the 120th day thereafter (or such earlier date on which such Event of Default shall have been cured or waived).  On such 120th day (or earlier, if the Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 704 is cured or waived prior to such 120th day), such Special Interest shall cease to accrue and, if the Event of Default relating to the failure to comply with Section 704 shall not have been cured or waived prior to such 120th day, the Securities shall be subject to acceleration as provided in this Section 502.  The provisions of this paragraph shall not affect the rights of holders in the event of the occurrence of any other Event of Default.
 
If the Company shall elect to pay Special Interest in connection with an Event of Default relating to its failure to comply with the requirements of Section 704, (1) the Company shall notify all Holders and the Trustee and Paying Agent of such election in writing on or before the close of business on the date on which such Event of Default shall first occur, and (2) all references herein to interest accrued or payable as of any date shall include any Special Interest accrued or payable as of such date as provided in this Section 502.  Upon the Company's failure to timely give such notice, the Securities will be subject to acceleration as provided above in this Section 502.
 
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series (or of all series, as the case may be) has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be), by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
 
the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay
(1)
          
 
all overdue interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, all Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be),
(A)
                             
 
the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, the Securities' Yield to Maturity),
(B)
                               
 
to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest and any Additional Amounts at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, the Securities' Yield to Maturity), and
(C)
                               
 
all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel;
(D)
                              
 
and
 
all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be), other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of that series (or of all series, as the case may be) which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513.
(2)
          
 
No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
Section 503.         Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee.
 
The Company covenants that if
 
(1)           default is made in the payment of any installment of interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security of any series when such interest or Additional Amounts shall have become due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
 
(2)           default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,
 
the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) and interest and Additional Amounts and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal (and premium, if any) and on any overdue interest and Additional Amounts, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities (or in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, the Securities' Yield to Maturity), and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
 
Section 504.         Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal (or lesser amount in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal (and premium, if any), interest or any Additional Amounts) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
 
(i)            to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (or lesser amount in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) (and premium, if any) and interest and any Additional Amounts owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
 
(ii)           to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607.
 
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceedings; provided, however, that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official.
 
Section 505.         Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities or Coupons.
 
All rights of action and claim under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
 
Section 506.         Application of Money Collected.
 
Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any), interest or any Additional Amounts, upon presentation of the Securities, and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
 
FIRST:  To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 607;
 
SECOND:  To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal (and premium, if any) interest and Additional Amounts, respectively; and
 
THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Person or Persons entitled thereto.
 
To the fullest extent allowed under applicable law, if for the purpose of obtaining judgment against the Company in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of any series (the "Required Currency") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the "Judgment Currency"), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the New York Business Day next preceding that on which final judgment is given. Neither the Company nor the Trustee shall be liable for any shortfall nor shall it benefit from any windfall in payments to Holders of Securities under this Section caused by a change in exchange rates between the time the amount of a judgment against it is calculated as above and the time the Trustee converts the Judgment Currency into the Required Currency to make payments under this Section to Holders of Securities, but payment of such judgment shall discharge all amounts owed by the Company on the claim or claims underlying such judgment.
 
Section 507.         Limitation on Suits.
 
Subject to Section 508, no Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
 
(1)           an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing and such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of such continuing Event of Default;
 
(2)           the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
 
(3)           such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee such indemnity or security as it may reasonably require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
 
(4)           the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity or security has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
 
(5)           no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
 
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other of such Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other of such Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all of such Holders.
 
Section 508.         Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 307) interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to such Security on the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
Section 509.         Restoration of Rights and Remedies.
 
If the Trustee or any Holder of any Security has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall, subject to any determination in such proceeding, be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder, and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
 
Section 510.         Rights and Remedies Cumulative.
 
Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right
 
and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
 
Section 511.         Delay or Omission Not Waiver.
 
No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
 
Section 512.         Control by Holders.
 
With respect to Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, relating to or arising under an Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3) or (7) of Section 501, and with respect to all Securities the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, not relating to or arising under such an Event of Default, provided that in each such case
 
(1)           such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, and
 
(2)           the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction.
 
Section 513.         Waiver of Past Defaults.
 
The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all Securities waive any other past default hereunder and its consequences, except in each case a default
 
(1)           in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security, or
 
(2)           in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected.
 
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
Section 514.         Undertaking for Costs.
 
All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or
 
defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Company, to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Holder, or group of Holders, holding in the aggregate more than 10% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Holder for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security on or after the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date).
 
Section 515.         Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws.
 
The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
 
ARTICLE SIX
 
THE TRUSTEE
 
Section 601.         Certain Duties and Responsibilities.
 
(a)           Except during the continuance of an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series,
 
(1)           the Trustee undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(2)           in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
 
(b)           In case an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
 
(c)           No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act or its own willful misconduct, except that
 
(1)           this Subsection shall not be construed to limit the effect of Subsection (a) of this Section;
 
(2)           the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts;
 
(3)           the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series or of all series, determined as provided in Section 512, relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series; and
 
(4)           no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or indemnity or security reasonably satisfactory to it against such risk or liability is not assured to it.
 
(d)           Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
 
Section 602.         Notice of Defaults.
 
Within 90 days after the occurrence of any default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall give notice of such default hereunder known to the Trustee to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 107, unless such default shall have been cured or waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund installment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series; and provided, further, that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. For the purpose of this Section, the term "default" means any event, act or condition which is, or after notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default with respect to Securities of such series.
 
Section 603.         Certain Rights of Trustee.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 601:
 
(a)           the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(b)           any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
 
(c)           whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate;
(d)           the Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
 
(e)           the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
 
(f)            the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney; and
 
(g)           the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and, except for any Affiliates of the Trustee,
 
the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder.
 
Section 604.         Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities.
 
The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities (including any documents related to the offering and sale of the Securities). The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
 
Section 605.         May Hold Securities.
 
The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Section 608 and Section 613, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent.
 
Section 606.         Money Held in Trust.
 
Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company.
 
Section 607.         Compensation and Reimbursement.
 
The Company agrees
 
(1)           to pay to the Trustee from time to time compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
 
(2)           except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the compensation and the reasonable expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith; and
 
(3)           to indemnify the Trustee and each of its directors, officers, employees, agents and/or representatives for, and to hold each of them harmless against, any loss, liability or expense incurred without negligence or bad faith on each of their part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of the Trustee's powers or duties hereunder.
 
As security for the performance of the obligations of the Company under this Section, the Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on, or any Additional Amounts with respect to, particular Securities.
 
Any expenses and compensation for any services rendered by the Trustee after the occurrence of an Event of Default specified in clause (5) or (6) of Section 501 shall constitute expenses and compensation for services of administration under all applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws.
 
The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture.
 
Section 608.         Disqualification; Conflicting Interests.
 
(a)           If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest, as defined in this Section, with respect to the Securities of any series, it shall, within 90 days after ascertaining that it has such conflicting interest, either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign with respect to the Securities of that series in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
 
(b)           In the event that the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Subsection (a) of this Section with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall, within 10 days after the expiration of such 90-day period, transmit by mail to all Holders of Securities of that series, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register, notice of such failure.
 
(c)           For the purposes of this Section, the term "conflicting interest" shall have the meaning specified in Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act and the Trustee shall comply with Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act; provided that there shall be excluded from the operation of Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to the Securities of any series any indenture or indentures under which other securities, or certificates of interest or participation in other securities, of the Company are outstanding, if the requirements for such exclusion set forth in Section 310(b)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act are met. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the optional provision permitted by the second sentence of Section 310(b)(9) of the Trust Indenture Act shall be applicable.
 
Section 609.         Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility.
 
There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, having a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State or District of Columbia authority. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the
 
combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
 
The Indenture shall always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of Sections 310(a)(1), 310(a)(2) and 310(a)(5) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Section 610.         Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor.
 
(a)           No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611.
 
(b)           The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the resigning Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
(c)           The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
 
(d)           If at any time:
 
(1)           the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608(a) after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
 
(2)           the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder of Securities, or
 
(3)           the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
 
then, in any such case, (i) the Company by a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
 
(e)           If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and such successor Trustee or Trustees shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611.  If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series
 
shall have been so appointed by the Company and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
(f)            The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series by mailing written notice of such event by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of such series as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
 
Section 611.         Acceptance of Appointment by Successor.
 
(a)           In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder.
 
(b)           In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates.
 
(c)           Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
 
(d)           No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
 
Section 612.         Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business.
 
Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
 
Section 613.         Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company.
 
The Trustee shall comply with Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, excluding any creditor relationship described in Section 311(b) of the Trust Indenture Act. A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to Section 311(a) of the Trust Indenture Act to the extent indicated therein.
 
Section 614.         Appointment of Authenticating Agent.
 
The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption or pursuant to Section 306, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 or equivalent amount expressed in a foreign currency and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State or District of Columbia authority or authority of such country. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
 
Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
 
An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders as their names and addresses appear in the
 
Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
 
The Trustee agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section, and the Trustee shall be entitled to be reimbursed for such payments, subject to the provisions of Section 607.
 
If an appointment is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
 
"This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 614 to the contrary, if at any time any Authenticating Agent appointed hereunder with respect to any series of Securities shall not also be acting as the Security Registrar hereunder with respect to any series of Securities, then, in addition to all other duties of an Authenticating Agent hereunder, such Authenticating Agent shall also be obligated: (i) to furnish to the Security Registrar promptly all information necessary to enable the Security Registrar to maintain at all times an accurate and current Security Register; and (ii) prior to authenticating any Security denominated in a foreign currency, to ascertain from the Company the units of such foreign currency that are required to be determined by the Company pursuant to Section 302.
 
ARTICLE SEVEN
 
HOLDER'S LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY
 
Section 701.         Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders.
 
With respect to each series of Securities, the Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee:
 
(a)           semi-annually, not more than 15 days after each Regular Record Date relating to that series (or, if there is no Regular Record Date relating to that series, on January 1 and July 1) a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of that series as of such dates, and
 
(b)           at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list of similar form and content, such list to be dated as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished;
provided, that so long as the Trustee is the Security Registrar, the Company shall not be required to furnish or cause to be furnished such a list to the Trustee. The Company shall otherwise comply with Section 312(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Section 702.         Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders.
 
(a)           The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders of each series contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders of each series received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar, if applicable. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished. The Trustee shall otherwise comply with Section 310(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(b)           Holders of Securities may communicate pursuant to Section 312(b) of the Trust Indenture Act with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities.
 
(c)           Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with Section 702(b), regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 702(b). The Company, the Trustee, the Security Registrar and any other Person shall have the protection of Section 312(c) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Section 703.         Reports by Trustee.
 
(a)           Within 60 days after May 15 of each year after the execution of this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit by mail to Holders a brief report dated as of such May 15 that complies with Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(b)           The Trustee shall comply with Section 313(b) of the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(c)           Reports pursuant to this Section shall be transmitted by mail as required by Sections 313(c) and 313(d) of the Trust Indenture Act:
 
(1)           to all Holders of Securities, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear in the Security Register;
 
(2)           to such Holders of Securities as have, within the two years preceding such transmissions, filed their names and addresses with the Trustee for that purpose; and
 
(3)           except in the case of reports pursuant to Subsection (b) of this Section, to each Holder of a Security whose name and address is preserved at the time by the Trustee, as provided in Section 702(a).
 
(d)           A copy of each report pursuant to Subsection (a) or (b)of this Section 703 shall, at the time of its transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company will notify the Trustee in writing when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange.
Section 704.         Reports by Company.
 
For so long as any Securities are outstanding, if the Company is subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company shall file with the Commission and furnish to the Trustee (unless such reports are available on the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) system or any successor thereto), within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and regulations:
 
(1)            all quarterly and annual reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K required to be filed by companies that are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act; and
 
(2)            all current reports on Form 8-K required to be filed by companies that are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act.
 
Each annual report on Form 10-K shall include a report on the Company's consolidated financial statements by the Company's certified independent accountants.  In addition, the Company shall post a copy of each of the reports referred to in clauses (1) and (2) above on its website for public availability as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports are filed with the Commission.
 
If, at any time, the Company is no longer subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act for any reason, the Company shall nevertheless continue to prepare the financial statements and a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" substantially similar to that which would have been required to be included in each of the reports specified in clause (1) of the preceding paragraph of this section had the Company been subject to such Exchange Act reporting requirements (with all such financial statements prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X promulgated by the Commission and all such annual financial statements including a report thereon from the Company's certified independent accountants) and post copies thereof to the Company's website for public availability within the time periods that would have been applicable to filing such reports with the Commission in the rules and regulations applicable to such reports if the Company had been required to file those reports with the Commission; , , that if the Company is no longer subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company will not be required to comply with Section 302 or Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or related Items 307 and 308 of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, or Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K (with respect to any non-GAAP financial measures contained therein).
provided
however
 
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
ARTICLE EIGHT
 
CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE
 
Section 801.         Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms.
 
The Company shall not convert into or consolidate, amalgamate, merge or enter into a scheme of arrangement with or into any other Person or sell, convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, unless:
 
(1)           Either (a) the Company is the surviving corporation or (b) the Person or entity formed by or surviving any such conversion, consolidation, amalgamation, merger or scheme of arrangement (if other than the Company) or the Person or entity to which such sale, conveyance, lease or transfer is made (i) shall expressly assume by an indenture supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, executed and delivered to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to
 
all of the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed, and (ii) is organized under the laws of a country that is a member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development including the United States or any state thereof (including the District of Columbia); that, unless such Person referred to in clause (b) is a corporation, a corporate co-issuer of the securities will be added to the applicable indenture by agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
provided
 
(2)           immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event, act or condition which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
 
(3)           the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such conversion, consolidation, amalgamation, merger, scheme of arrangement, sale, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
 
Section 802.         Successor Person Substituted.
 
Upon any conversion into or consolidation, amalgamation or entering into a scheme of arrangement by the Company with, or merger by the Company into, any other Person or any sale, conveyance, transfer or lease of all or substantially all of the properties and assets (on a consolidated basis) of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation, amalgamation or scheme of arrangement or into which the Company is merged or converted or to which such sale, conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of such lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
 
ARTICLE NINE
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
 
Section 901.         Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders.
 
Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
 
(1)           to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or
 
(2)           to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series), to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee or otherwise secure any series of the Securities or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
 
(3)           to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of the Securities (and, if such Event of Default is applicable to less than all series of Securities, specifying the series to which such Event of Default is applicable) ; or
 
(4)           to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture, provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is adversely affected by such change in or elimination of such provision; or
 
(5)           to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Section 201 and Section 301; or
 
(6)           to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance or satisfaction and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 401; provided, however, that any such action shall not adversely affect the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series or any other series of Securities in any material respect; or
 
(7)           to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611(b); or
 
(8)           to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture, provided such other provisions as may be made shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series in any material respect;
 
(9)           to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination (A) shall neither (i) apply to any security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provisions nor (ii) modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (B) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding; or
 
(10)         to secure the Securities of any series; or
 
(11)         to comply with any requirement in order to effect or maintain qualification of this Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Section 902.         Supplemental Indentures With Consent of Holders.
 
With the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby,
 
(1)           change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, any premium payable upon redemption thereof or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon, any Additional Amounts with respect thereto or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or change any obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts (except as contemplated by Section 801(1)) and permitted by Section 901(1)), or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant
 
to Section 502, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency or currencies (including composite currencies) in which, any Security or any premium or any interest thereon or Additional Amounts with respect thereto is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or
 
(2)           reduce the percentage in principal amount of Outstanding Securities, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or
 
(3)           modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 512 or Section 1106, except to increase any such percentage or to provide with respect to any particular series the right to condition the effectiveness of any supplemental indenture as to that series on the consent of the Holders of a specified percentage of the aggregate principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series (which provision may be made pursuant to Section 301 without the consent of any Holder) or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 1006, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Section 611(b) and Section 901(7).
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
 
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
 
Section 903.         Execution of Supplemental Indentures.
 
In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties, immunities or liabilities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
Section 904.         Effect of Supplemental Indentures.
 
Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
 
Section 905.         Conformity With Trust Indenture Act.
 
Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
Section 906.         Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures.
 
Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
ARTICLE TEN
 
COVENANTS
 
Section 1001.       Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest.
 
The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any), interest on and any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture.
 
Section 1002.       Maintenance of Office or Agency.
 
The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
 
Section 1003.       Money for Securities Payments to be Held in Trust.
 
If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, before 10:00 a.m., Houston, Texas time, on each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest or any Additional Amounts so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, the Company will, before 10:00 a.m., Houston, Texas time, on each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of its action or failure so to act.
 
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
 
hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any), interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(1)
          
 
give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any), interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities of that series; and
(2)
          
 
at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
(3)
          
 
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money.
 
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on or any Additional Amounts with respect to any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for three years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest or Additional Amounts have become due and payable shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat, or abandoned or unclaimed property law, be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York and in such other Authorized Newspapers as the Trustee shall deem appropriate, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat, or abandoned or unclaimed property law, be repaid to the Company.
 
Section 1004.
      
Existence.
 
Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence.
 
Section 1005.
      
Statement by Officers as to Default.
 
The Company will deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof so long as any Security is outstanding hereunder, an Officers' Certificate complying with Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, stating that a review of the activities of the Company during such year and of performance under this Indenture has been made under the supervision of the signers thereof and whether or not, to the best of their knowledge based upon such review, the Company is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of its covenants and other obligations under this Indenture, and if the Company shall be in default, specifying each such default known to them and the nature and status thereof. One of the officers signing the Officers' Certificate
delivered pursuant to this Section 1005 shall be the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company.
 
For purposes of this Section, such compliance shall be determined without regard to any period of grace or requirement of notice provided under this Indenture.
 
Section 1006.
      
Waiver of Certain Covenants.
 
The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in Section 1004, or any covenant added for the benefit of any series of Securities as contemplated by Section 301 (unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301) if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such omission (acting as one class) shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
 
Section 1007.
      
Additional Amounts.
 
If the Securities of a series expressly provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of such series Additional Amounts as expressly provided therein. Whenever in this Indenture there is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on, or in respect of, any Security of any series or the net proceeds received from the sale or exchange of any Security of any series, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for in this Section to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to the provisions of this Section and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
 
If the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, at least 10 days prior to the first Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities (or if the Securities of that series will not bear interest prior to Maturity, the first day on which a payment of principal and any premium is made), and at least 10 days prior to each date of payment of principal and any premium or interest if there has been any change with respect to the matters set forth in the below-mentioned Officers' Certificate, the Company shall furnish the Trustee and the Company's principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, with an Officers' Certificate instructing the Trustee and such Paying Agent or Paying Agents whether such payment of principal of and any premium or interest on the Securities of that series shall be made to Holders of Securities of that series who are United States Aliens without withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge described in the Securities of that series. If any such withholding shall be required, then such Officers' Certificate shall specify by country the amount, if any, required to be withheld on such payments to such Holders of Securities and the Company will pay to such Paying Agent the Additional Amounts required by this Section. The Company covenants to indemnify the Trustee and any Paying Agent for, and to hold them harmless against any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without negligence or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted by any of them in reliance on any Officers' Certificate furnished pursuant to this Section 1007.
 
Section 1008.
      
Limitation on Liens.
 
The Company will not, nor will it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, incur, create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any Principal Property or any securities or indebtedness of any Subsidiary that owns or leases any Principal Property (whether such Principal Property, securities or indebtedness are now existing or owned or subsequently created or acquired) to secure any Indebtedness, without effectively providing that all of the Securities Outstanding hereunder shall be secured equally and ratably with or prior to such
secured Indebtedness until such time as such Indebtedness is no longer secured by a Lien.  This restriction shall not apply to:
 
Liens existing on, or provided for under the terms of agreements existing on, the date that any Securities are issued under this Indenture;
(1)
          
 
Liens on property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets existing at the time of acquisition thereof (including Liens on any property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets acquired from or held by a Person which is consolidated or amalgamated with, or merged with or into, the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company) and Liens on property, shares of stock, indebtedness or other assets existing at the time any Person becomes a Subsidiary of the Company that are not incurred in anticipation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary of the Company;
(2)
          
 
Liens on property acquired, constructed, altered or improved by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries after the date of this Indenture which are created or assumed contemporaneously with, or within one year after, such acquisition (or in the case of property constructed, altered or improved, after the completion and commencement of commercial operation of such property, whichever is later) to secure or provide for the payment of any part of the purchase price of such property or the cost of such construction, alteration or improvement, it being understood that if a commitment for such a financing is obtained prior to or within such one year period, the applicable Lien shall be deemed to be included in this clause (3) whether or not such Lien is created within such one year period; provided that in the case of any such construction, alteration or improvement the Lien shall not apply to any property theretofore owned by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries other than (i) the property so altered or improved and (ii) any theretofore unimproved real property on which the property so constructed or altered, or the improvement, is located;
(3)
          
 
Liens in favor of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries;
(4)
          
 
Liens on any current assets that secure current liabilities;
(5)
          
 
Liens in favor of the United States or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), any foreign country or any department, agency, instrumentality or political subdivision of any such jurisdiction to secure partial, progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute;
(6)
          
 
Liens to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or the cost of constructing, developing, repairing or improving the property subject to such Liens, including without limitation, Liens to secure Indebtedness of the pollution control or industrial revenue bond type;
(7)
          
 
Liens to secure Indebtedness issued or guaranteed by the United States or any state, territory or possession thereof (or the District of Columbia), any foreign country or any department, agency or instrumentality of any such jurisdiction;
(8)
          
 
Permitted Liens; and
(9)
          
 
Liens to secure any refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement (or successive refinancings, refundings, extensions, renewals or replacements), in whole or in part, of any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (1) through (9); provided, however, that the principal amount of Indebtedness secured thereby shall not exceed the principal amount of Indebtedness so secured at the time of such refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement (plus the aggregate amount of premiums, other payments, costs and expenses related to such refinancing, refunding, extension, renewal or replacement), and that such refinancing,
(10)
        
refunding, extension, renewal or replacement shall be limited to all or a part of the property which secured the Lien so refinanced, refunded, extended, renewed or replaced (plus improvements on such property).
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1008 or Section 1009, the Company and any of its Subsidiaries may incur, issue, assume or guarantee Indebtedness secured by a Lien not otherwise permitted by this Indenture, or may enter into Sale-Leaseback Transactions without complying with Section 1009, or enter into a combination of such transactions, in an aggregate amount which, together with all other such secured Indebtedness then outstanding and together with the aggregate amount of Attributable Indebtedness of the Company and its Subsidiaries deemed to be outstanding in respect of all Sale-Leaseback Transactions (to the extent not included in Indebtedness secured by Liens not otherwise permitted by this Indenture and excluding any Sale-Leaseback Transactions the proceeds of which have been applied in accordance with clause (b) of Section 1009) does not exceed 15% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
 
Section 1009.
      
Restriction on Sale-Leaseback Transactions.
 
The Company shall not, and shall not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Sale-Leaseback Transaction with respect to any Principal Property unless:
 
at the time of entering into such Sale-Leaseback Transaction, the Company or such Subsidiary would be entitled to incur Indebtedness secured by a Lien on the Principal Property subject to such Sale-Leaseback Transaction in a principal amount at least equal to the Attributable Indebtedness with respect to such Sale-Leaseback Transaction pursuant to Section 1008 without equally and ratably securing the Securities pursuant to such Section; or
(a)
          
 
within 12 months after the effective date of such Sale-Leaseback Transaction, the Company or its Subsidiary, as the case may be, applies an amount equal to not less than the Attributable Indebtedness with respect to such Sale-Leaseback Transaction either to:
(b)
          
 
the voluntary defeasance or the prepayment, repayment, redemption or retirement of senior or pari passu Indebtedness of the Company;
(1)
          
 
the acquisition, construction, development or improvement of any Principal Property used or useful in the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries; or
(2)
          
 
any combination of applications referred to in clauses (1) and (2) above.
(3)
          
 
ARTICLE ELEVEN
 
REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES
 
Section 1101.
      
Applicability of Article.
 
Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
 
Section 1102.
      
Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee.
 
Unless otherwise provided with respect to the Securities of a series as contemplated by Section 301, the election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by a Board Resolution. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of less than all the Securities of any series, the Company shall, a reasonable period prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal
amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
 
Any notice may be cancelled at any time prior to the mailing of that notice of redemption to any Holder of any Security of that Series and shall thereupon be void and of no effect.
 
Section 1103.
      
Selection by Trustee of Securities to be Redeemed.
 
If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions (equal to the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or any integral multiple thereof) of the principal amount of Securities of such series of a denomination larger than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of that series or of the principal amount of global Securities of such series.
 
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Security Registrar in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
 
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
 
Section 1104.
      
Notice of Redemption.
 
Notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided in Section 107 to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.
 
All notices of redemption shall state:
 
the Redemption Date;
(1)
          
 
the Redemption Price (or, if the Redemption Price is not determinable when the notice of redemption is given, then the method of calculating it);
(2)
          
 
if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed;
(3)
          
 
that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date;
(4)
          
 
the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price;
(5)
          
 
that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case; and
(6)
          
 
the "CUSIP" number, if applicable.
(7)
          
 
A notice of redemption as contemplated by Section 107 need not identify particular Securities to be redeemed. Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be
given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
 
Section 1105.
      
Deposit of Redemption Price.
 
On or before 10:00 a. m., Houston, Texas time, on any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, and any Additional Amounts with respect to, all the Securities which are to be redeemed on that date.
 
Section 1106.
      
Securities Payable on Redemption Date.
 
Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest (and any Additional Amounts) to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
 
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities, the Securities' Yield to Maturity.
 
Section 1107.
      
Securities Redeemed in Part.
 
Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series and Stated Maturity, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered.
 
Section 1108.
      
Purchase of Securities.
 
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, the Company and any Affiliate of the Company may at any time purchase or otherwise acquire Securities in the open market or by private agreement. Such acquisition shall not operate as or be deemed for any purpose to be a redemption of the indebtedness represented by such Securities. Any Securities purchased or acquired by the Company may be delivered to the Trustee and, upon such delivery, the indebtedness represented thereby shall be deemed to be satisfied. Section 309 shall apply to all Securities so delivered.
ARTICLE TWELVE
 
SINKING FUNDS
 
Section 1201.
      
Applicability of Article.
 
The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series.
 
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment," and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment." Unless otherwise provided by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
 
Section 1202.
      
Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities.
 
The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption), and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking payment shall be reduced accordingly.
 
Section 1203.
      
Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund.
 
Not less than 45 days prior (unless a shorter period shall be satisfactory to the Trustee) to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivery of or by crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Section 1106 and Section 1107.
 
ARTICLE THIRTEEN
 
MEETINGS OF HOLDERS OF SECURITIES
 
Section 1301.
      
Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called.
 
A meeting of Holders of Securities of any or all series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this Article to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series.
Section 1302.
      
Call, Notice and Place of Meetings.
 
The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in Section 1301, to be held at such time and at such place in Houston, Texas or in New York, New York, or in any other location, as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided in Section 107, not less than 20 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
(a)
          
 
In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, shall have requested the Trustee for any such series to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in Section 1301, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication of the notice of such meeting within 30 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in Houston, Texas or in New York, New York, for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in Subsection (a) of this Section and shall provide a copy to the Trustee.
(b)
          
 
Section 1303.
      
Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings.
 
To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder or Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
 
Section 1304.
      
Quorum; Action.
 
The Persons entitled to vote a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case, the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Subject to Section 1305(d), notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in Section 1302(a), except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of an adjourned meeting shall state expressly that Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall constitute a quorum.
 
Except as limited by the first proviso to Section 902, any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series; provided, however, that, except as limited by the first proviso to Section 902, any resolution with respect to any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage that is less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the
affirmative vote of the Holders of such specified percentage in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series.
 
Except as limited by the first proviso to Section 902, any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of such series, whether or not present or represented at the meeting.
 
Section 1305.
      
Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings.
 
The holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 105 and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 105. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in Section 105 or other proof.
(a)
          
 
The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Holders of Securities as provided in Section 1302(b), in which case the Company or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting.
(b)
          
 
At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series and each proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by him; provided, however, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or as a proxy.
(c)
          
 
Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to Section 1302 at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
(d)
          
 
Section 1306.
      
Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings.
 
The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to such record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that such notice was given as provided in Section 1302 and, if applicable, Section 1304. Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Company, and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
 
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION as Issuer
 
 
and
 
 
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Trustee
 
 
$450,000,000
 
 
6.375% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2018
 
 
FIRST
 
SUPPLEMENTAL
 
INDENTURE
 
 
Dated as of June 26, 2008
 
 
 
 
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of June 26, 2008 (this "Supplemental Indenture") between Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"),
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2008 (the "Original Indenture"), with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee;
 
WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";
 
WHEREAS, under Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Securities may at any time be established by a supplemental indenture executed by the Issuer and the Trustee;
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Securities; and
 
WHEREAS, all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW SERIES
 
Section 1.01.          .
Establishment of New Series
 
(a)           There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 6.375% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "Notes").
 
(b)           There are to be authenticated and delivered $450,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
 
(c)           The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto.  The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
 
(d)           Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph 1 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
 
(e)           No Additional Amounts shall be payable in relation to the Notes.
 
(f)            If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
 
ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS
 
Section 2.01.          .  All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined below shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Original Indenture.  The following are additional definitions used in this Supplemental Indenture:
Definitions in the Indenture
 
"Bankruptcy Act" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar United States federal or state law (or any similar foreign law) for the relief of debtors.
 
The term of any Person means and includes any and all shares, rights to purchase, warrants or options (whether or not currently exercisable), participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) the equity (which includes, but is not limited to, common stock, preferred stock and partnership and joint venture interests) of such Person (excluding any debt securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable for, such equity).
"capital stock"
 
means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the first public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the consummation of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended following the consummation of a Change of Control so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies);  that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event"
provided
 
means the occurrence of any of the following:
"Change of Control"
 
(1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and those of the Subsidiaries of the Company taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are
used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of the Subsidiaries of the Company;
 
(2) the consummation of any transaction or series of related transactions (including, without limitation, any merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of a majority of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
 
(3) the Company consolidates, amalgamates or enters into an arrangement with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates, amalgamates or enters into an arrangement with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or the Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving or resulting Person (including any newly formed holding company that owns or controls at least a majority of the Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person) immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company is not comprised of Continuing Directors; or
 
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect Wholly Owned Subsidiary of a holding company and (b) (y) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to that transaction or (z) the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the holding company immediately after giving effect to such transaction.
 
means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event"
 
means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of our proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
"Continuing Directors"
or means a Note that is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all the Outstanding Notes or any portion thereof.
"Global Security"
"Global Note"
 
means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
"Investment Grade"
 
means the date on which the Notes are initially issued under the Indenture.
"Issue Date"
 
means Moody's Investors Service Inc.
"Moody's"
 
has the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.01(a) hereof, and includes both the Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes.
"Notes"
 
means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be, and that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
"Rating Agency"
 
means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
"S&P"
 
means, with respect to any Person, capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
"Voting Stock"
 
Section 2.02.          .
Other Definitions
 
 
ARTICLE III THE NOTES
 
Section 3.01.          .  The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a
Form
part of this Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
 
Section 3.02.          .  The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes ("Additional Notes") under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $450,000,000, subject to the provisions of Section 306 of the Original Indenture.  The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
Issuance of Additional Notes
 
ARTICLE IV REDEMPTION
 
Section 4.01.          .
Optional Redemption
 
(a)           At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
 
(b)           To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
 
(c)           Any redemption pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article Eleven of the Original Indenture.  The actual Redemption Price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto, shall be certified in writing to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Independent Investment Banker (as defined in such paragraph 5) no later than two Business Days prior to each Redemption Date.
 
Section 4.02.          .  Except as set forth in Section 5.01 below, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes and shall have no obligation to repurchase any Notes at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
 
ARTICLE V COVENANT SUPPLEMENTS
 
Section 5.01.          .
Covenants of the Company
 
(a)           Article Ten of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the following new Section 1010 at the end of Article Ten:
Section 1010.  .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
 
(1)  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event, unless the Company has exercised its right pursuant to the provisions of numbered paragraph 5 on the reverse side of the form of Note set forth in Exhibit A to redeem the Notes, the Company shall make an offer (the "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in amounts of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of each Holder's Notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment").
 
(2)  Within 30 days following the consummation of any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to the consummation of any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by the Notes and described in the notice. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
 
(3)  The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations promulgated thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 1010, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1010 by virtue of such conflict.
 
(4)  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of the Notes (in amounts of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn; and
 
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Company.
(5)  The Paying Agent for the Notes shall promptly mail to each Holder of properly tendered Notes the repurchase price for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
 
(6)  The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.  In the event that such third party terminates or defaults on its Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to make a Change of Control Offer treating the date of such termination or default by such third party as though it were the date of the Change of Control Repurchase Event.
 
ARTICLE VI ADDITIONAL EVENT OF DEFAULT
 
.  In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the definition thereof contained in Section 501 of the Original Indenture, the term "Event of Default," when used in the Indenture with respect to the Notes, shall mean any of the Events of Default set forth in Section 501 of the Original Indenture and shall also include any default in the performance, or breach, of the covenants set forth in of this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 6.01.         
Events of Default
Article V
 
ARTICLE VII MISCELLANEOUS
 
Section 7.01.          .  This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Integral Part
 
Section 7.02.          .  The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
 
Section 7.03.          .  This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
Section 7.04.          .  .
Governing Law
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
 
Section 7.05.          .  The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture and shall not be liable in connection therewith. The rights and duties of the Trustee
Trustee Makes No Representation; Trustee's Rights and Duties
shall be determined by the express provisions of the Original Indenture and, except as expressly set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, nothing in this Supplemental Indenture shall in any way modify or otherwise affect the Trustee's rights and duties thereunder.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to                     , or registered assigns, the principal sum of $                           Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto](1) on July 15,  2018.
 
Interest Payment Dates: January 15 and July 15.
Record Dates: January 1 and July 1
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
WELLS FARGO BANK
, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
as
Trustee
 
 
(1) To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 
 
[
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO HEREIN
.](2)
 
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
1.     .  Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 6.375% per annum from June 26, 2008 until maturity.  The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date").  Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a Regular Record Date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be January 15, 2009.  The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate; and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest; Additional Interest
provided
provided
further
 
(2)To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
2.     .  The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the January 1 or July 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 307 of the Original Indenture with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a Paying Agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof.  The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is c/o Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, 201 Main Street, Suite 301, Fort Worth, Texas 76102) or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (a) each Global Security and (b) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the paying agent to an account in the United States on or prior to the applicable record date.  Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
provided
 
3.     .  Initially, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture, shall act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar.  The Issuer may change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
4.     .  The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of June 26, 2008 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of the same date (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture") between the Issuer and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb).  The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms.  To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.  The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $450 million.  The Issuer may issue an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture.  Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest) as the initial Notes for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the Supplemental Indenture).
Indenture
 
 
5.     .  (a)  At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
Optional Redemption
 
(b)           To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) from the Redemption Date to July 15, 2018 computed by discounting such payments to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual
 
basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 40 basis points, plus in either case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
 
For purposes of determining the Redemption Price, the following definitions shall apply:
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price"
means, for any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date.
 
"Independent Investment Banker"
  means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
means each of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC or their affiliates which are primary U.S. government securities dealers, and their respective successors; , , that if any of the foregoing or their affiliates shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
  provided
however
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
 
"Treasury Rate"
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual or equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
 
6.             .  Except as set forth in Section 5.01 of the Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes or to repurchase them at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
 
7.     .  Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address.  Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.  On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the Redemption Price has been paid.
Notice of Redemption
 
8.     .  The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.  The Security Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
9.     .  The registered Holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
10.   .  Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby, any existing default relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities waive any other default under the Indenture.  Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 901 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Notes, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes in any material respect, to comply with the requirements of the Commission to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or additional Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any additional Events of Default, to secure the Notes or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Securities.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
11.   .  Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes; (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption or otherwise; (iii) default in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in the Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty referred to in clause (i) or (ii) or included in the Indenture for the sole benefit of a series of Securities other than the Notes), and continuance of such default for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby a written notice specifying such default and requiring it to
Events of Defaults and Acceleration
 
be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" under the Indenture; and (iv)  certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer.  If any Event of Default referred to in clause (i) or (ii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable.  If an Event of Default referred to in clause (iii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such default, including the Notes, may declare all such Securities to be due and payable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default referred to in clause (iv), all Outstanding Securities shall become due and payable without further action or notice.  Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.
 
12.   .  This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
 
13.   .  Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
14.   .  Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
 
The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture.  Requests may be made to:
 
Cameron International Corporation
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas   77027
Attention:  General Counsel
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
The original principal amount of this Global Note is $450,000,000.  The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
 
(3)To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 

Exhibit 4.3
CAMERON INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION as Issuer
 
and
 
WELLS FARGO BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION as Trustee
 
$300,000,000
 
7.00% SENIOR NOTES DUE 2038
 
SECOND
 
SUPPLEMENTAL
 
INDENTURE
 
 
Dated as of June 26, 2008
 
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of June 26, 2008 (this "Supplemental Indenture") between Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"),
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer has heretofore entered into an Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2008 (the "Original Indenture"), with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee;
 
WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";
 
WHEREAS, under Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Securities may at any time be established by a supplemental indenture executed by the Issuer and the Trustee;
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Securities; and
 
WHEREAS, all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW SERIES
 
Section 1.01.          .
Establishment of New Series
 
(a)           There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 7.00% Senior Notes due 2038 (the "Notes").
 
(b)           There are to be authenticated and delivered $300,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
 
(c)           The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto.  The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
 
(d)           Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph 1 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
 
 
(e)           No Additional Amounts shall be payable in relation to the Notes.
 
(f)            If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
 
ARTICLE II DEFINITIONS
 
Section 2.01.          .  All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined below shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Original Indenture.  The following are additional definitions used in this Supplemental Indenture:
Definitions in the Indenture
 
"Bankruptcy Act" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar United States federal or state law (or any similar foreign law) for the relief of debtors.
               
 
The term of any Person means and includes any and all shares, rights to purchase, warrants or options (whether or not currently exercisable), participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) the equity (which includes, but is not limited to, common stock, preferred stock and partnership and joint venture interests) of such Person (excluding any debt securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable for, such equity).
"capital stock"
 
means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the first public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the consummation of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended following the consummation of a Change of Control so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies);  that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event"
provided
 
means the occurrence of any of the following:
"Change of Control"
 
(1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and those of the Subsidiaries of the Company taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are
 
used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of the Subsidiaries of the Company;
 
(2) the consummation of any transaction or series of related transactions (including, without limitation, any merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of a majority of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
 
(3) the Company consolidates, amalgamates or enters into an arrangement with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates, amalgamates or enters into an arrangement with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or the Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving or resulting Person (including any newly formed holding company that owns or controls at least a majority of the Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person) immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company is not comprised of Continuing Directors; or
 
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect Wholly Owned Subsidiary of a holding company and (b) (y) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to that transaction or (z) the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the holding company immediately after giving effect to such transaction.
 
means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event"
 
means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of our proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
"Continuing Directors"
 
or means a Note that is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all the Outstanding Notes or any portion thereof.
"Global Security"
"Global Note"
 
means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
"Investment Grade"
 
means the date on which the Notes are initially issued under the Indenture.
"Issue Date"
 
means Moody's Investors Service Inc.
"Moody's"
 
has the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.01(a) hereof, and includes both the Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes.
"Notes"
 
means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be, and that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
"Rating Agency"
 
means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc.
"S&P"
 
means, with respect to any Person, capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
"Voting Stock"
 
Section 2.02.          .
Other Definitions
 
 
ARTICLE III THE NOTES
 
Section 3.01.          .  The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a
Form
 
part of this Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
 
Section 3.02.          .  The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes ("Additional Notes") under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000, subject to the provisions of Section 306 of the Original Indenture.  The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
Issuance of Additional Notes
 
ARTICLE IV REDEMPTION
 
Section 4.01.          .
Optional Redemption
 
(a)           At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
 
(b)           To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
 
(c)           Any redemption pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article Eleven of the Original Indenture.  The actual Redemption Price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto, shall be certified in writing to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Independent Investment Banker (as defined in such paragraph 5) no later than two Business Days prior to each Redemption Date.
 
Section 4.02.          .  Except as set forth in Section 5.01 below, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes and shall have no obligation to repurchase any Notes at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
 
ARTICLE V COVENANT SUPPLEMENTS
 
Section 5.01.          .
Covenants of the Company
 
(a)           Article Ten of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the following new Section 1010 at the end of Article Ten:
Section 1010.  .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
 
(1)  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event, unless the Company has exercised its right pursuant to the provisions of numbered paragraph 5 on the reverse side of the form of Note set forth in Exhibit A to redeem the Notes, the Company shall make an offer (the "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in amounts of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of each Holder's Notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment").
 
(2)  Within 30 days following the consummation of any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to the consummation of any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by the Notes and described in the notice. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
 
(3)  The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations promulgated thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 1010, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1010 by virtue of such conflict.
 
(4)  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of the Notes (in amounts of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn; and
 
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Company.
 
(5)  The Paying Agent for the Notes shall promptly mail to each Holder of properly tendered Notes the repurchase price for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
 
(6)  The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.  In the event that such third party terminates or defaults on its Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to make a Change of Control Offer treating the date of such termination or default by such third party as though it were the date of the Change of Control Repurchase Event.
 
ARTICLE VI ADDITIONAL EVENT OF DEFAULT
 
.  In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the definition thereof contained in Section 501 of the Original Indenture, the term "Event of Default," when used in the Indenture with respect to the Notes, shall mean any of the Events of Default set forth in Section 501 of the Original Indenture and shall also include any default in the performance, or breach, of the covenants set forth in of this Supplemental Indenture.
Section 6.01.         
Events of Default
Article V
 
ARTICLE VII MISCELLANEOUS
 
Section 7.01.          .  This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Integral Part
 
Section 7.02.          .  The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
 
Section 7.03.          .  This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
Section 7.04.          .  .
Governing Law
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
 
Section 7.05.          .  The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture and shall not be liable in connection therewith. The rights and duties of the Trustee
Trustee Makes No Representation; Trustee's Rights and Duties
 
shall be determined by the express provisions of the Original Indenture and, except as expressly set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, nothing in this Supplemental Indenture shall in any way modify or otherwise affect the Trustee's rights and duties thereunder.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to                     , or registered assigns, the principal sum of $                     Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto](1) on July 15, 2038.
 
Interest Payment Dates: January 15 and July 15
Record Dates: January 1 and July 1
 
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
WELLS FARGO BANK
, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
as
Trustee
 
 
(1) To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
[
 
(2)
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO HEREIN
.]
 
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
1.     .  Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 7.00% per annum from June 26, 2008 until maturity.  The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on January 15 and July 15 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date").  Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a Regular Record Date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be January 15, 2009.  The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate; and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest; Additional Interest
provided
provided
further
 
(2) To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
2.     .  The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the January 1 or July 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 307 of the Original Indenture with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a Paying Agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof.  The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is c/o Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, 201 Main Street, Suite 301, Fort Worth, Texas 76102) or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (a) each Global Security and (b) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the paying agent to an account in the United States on or prior to the applicable record date.  Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
provided
 
3.     .  Initially, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture, shall act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar.  The Issuer may change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
4.     .  The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of June 26, 2008 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of the same date (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture") between the Issuer and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb).  The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms.  To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.  The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $300 million.  The Issuer may issue an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture.  Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest) as the initial Notes for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the Supplemental Indenture).
Indenture
 
 
5.     .  (a)  At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
Optional Redemption
 
(b)           To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) from the Redemption Date to July 15, 2038 computed by discounting such payments to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual
basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 40 basis points, plus in either case, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date.
 
For purposes of determining the Redemption Price, the following definitions shall apply:
 
means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
 
means, for any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date.
"Comparable Treasury Price"
 
 means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
"Independent Investment Banker"
 
means each of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC or their affiliates which are primary U.S. government securities dealers, and their respective successors; , , that if any of the foregoing or their affiliates shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
  provided
however
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
 
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual or equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
"Treasury Rate"
 
6.             .  Except as set forth in Section 5.01 of the Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes or to repurchase them at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
 
7.             .  Notice of redemption shall be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address.  Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.  On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the Redemption Price has been paid.
Notice of Redemption
 
8.     .  The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.  The Security Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
9.     .  The registered Holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
10.   .  Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby, any existing default relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities waive any other default under the Indenture.  Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 901 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Notes, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes in any material respect, to comply with the requirements of the Commission to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or additional Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any additional Events of Default, to secure the Notes or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Securities.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
11.   .  Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes; (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption or otherwise; (iii) default in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in the Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty referred to in clause (i) or (ii) or included in the Indenture for the sole benefit of a series of Securities other than the Notes), and continuance of such default for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby a written notice specifying such default and requiring it to
Events of Defaults and Acceleration
 
be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" under the Indenture; and (iv)  certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer.  If any Event of Default referred to in clause (i) or (ii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable.  If an Event of Default referred to in clause (iii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such default, including the Notes, may declare all such Securities to be due and payable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default referred to in clause (iv), all Outstanding Securities shall become due and payable without further action or notice.  Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.
 
12.   .  This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
 
13.   .  Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
14.   .  Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
 
The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture.  Requests may be made to:
 
Cameron International Corporation
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas 77027
Attention:  General Counsel
 
 
(Signature must be guaranteed by a financial institution that is a member of the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP"), the Stock Exchange Medallion Program ("SEMP"), the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.  Medallion Signature Program ("MSP") or such other signature guarantee program as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, SEMP or MSP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)
 
The original principal amount of this Global Note is $300,000,000.  The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
(3) To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.

Exhibit 5.1
 
June 26, 2008
 
Cameron International Corporation
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas 775201
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as counsel for Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), with respect to the preparation and filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to Rule 424(b) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), of a prospectus supplement, dated June 26, 2008 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), to the prospectus, dated June 23, 2008 (the "Base Prospectus," and together with the Prospectus Supplement, the "Prospectus"), included as a part of the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the "Registration Statement") relating to sale by the Company to J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters (the "Representatives"), pursuant to that certain Underwriting Agreement, dated June 23, 2008 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), between the Company and the Representatives, of $450,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.375% Notes due 2018(the "2018 Notes") and $300,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.00% Notes due 2038(the "2038 Notes," and together with the 2018 Notes, the "Securities") issued under that certain Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2008, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated June 26, 2008, and the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated June 26, 2008 (collectively, the "Indenture"), between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee").
 
We have reviewed originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of (i) the Registration Statement, (ii) the Underwriting Agreement, (iii) the Indenture and (iv) such other certificates, statutes and other instruments and documents as we considered appropriate for purposes of the opinion hereafter expressed.
 
Based on the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Securities have been duly authorized and, when executed and authenticated by the Trustee under the Indenture and issued and delivered in accordance with the provisions of the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture, such Securities will constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the
 
Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforceability thereof is subject to the effect of (a) any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, (b) general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and (c) any implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing.
 
The opinions expressed herein are limited in all respects to (1)  the laws of the State of New York, (2) the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, which includes the statutory provisions and also all applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting these laws, and (3) applicable federal law.
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as Exhibit 5.1 to the Registration Statement and to the reference to us under "Legal Matters" in the prospectus forming a part of the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
2008-10
 
 
CAMERON PRICES $750 MILLION OF SENIOR NOTES
 
HOUSTON (June 23, 2008)  Cameron (NYSE: CAM) has priced a public offering of $450 million aggregate principal amount of 6 3/8% senior notes due 2018 and $300 million aggregate principal amount of 7% senior notes due 2038.  The sale of the senior notes is expected to settle on June 26, 2008, subject to customary closing conditions.  Cameron intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions, repurchases or conversions of its common stock and convertible debt securities, additional working capital needs, capital expenditures and repayment and refinancing of other indebtedness.
 
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Morgan Stanley and UBS Investment Bank are acting as joint book-running managers for the senior notes offering.  In addition, DnB NOR Markets, Inc, Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc and Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International PLC are senior co-managers, and BBVA Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Standard Chartered Bank and UniCredit Capital Markets, Inc. are co-managing underwriters.  Copies of the prospectus supplement and the related base prospectus for the offering may be obtained by contacting J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. at 270 Park Avenue, 8th Floor, New York, New York 10017, Attention: Syndicate Desk, (212) 834-4533; Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated at 180 Varick Street, New York, New York 10014, Attention: Prospectus Department, or toll-free at (866) 718-1649; or UBS Investment Bank at 677 Washington Blvd., Stamford, CT 06901, Attention: Fixed Income Syndicate, or toll-free at (877) 827-6444, ext. 561-3884.  An electronic copy of the prospectus supplement and the related base prospectus will also be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") at www.sec.gov.
 
This offering is made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement and prospectus filed by Cameron with the SEC.  This release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor will there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification
under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. This offering may be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and related base prospectus.
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934, including the expected consummation of the offering described and the use of proceeds.  Forward-looking statements include estimates and give our current expectations or forecasts of future events.  Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.
 


