FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20081030073030.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
On October 30, 2008, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
   
 
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      
October 30, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
2008-16
                 R. Scott Amann
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.73
HOUSTON (October 30, 2008) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $166.3 million, or $0.73 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2008, compared with net income of $150.7 million, or $0.65 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2007.  The third quarter 2007 results included a gain of $19.8 million, or $0.09 per share, related to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.  Excluding that gain, the Companys earnings were $0.56 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2007.
Total revenues were $1,504.7 million for the quarter, up 27 percent from 2007s $1,186.2 million, while income before income taxes was $247.4 million, up 24 percent from the $198.9 million of a year ago.  Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore noted that the year-over-year increases reflect double-digit earnings increases in all three business groups, led by the longer-cycle drilling and subsea businesses.
Record orders in subsea and drilling businesses drive backlog to new high
Orders received during the third quarter of 2008 totaled $2,611.8 million, almost double (up 97 percent) the $1,329.0 million of a year ago, driven primarily by continued strength in the drilling and subsea markets.  The $850 million booking for the initial phase of BPs Block 31 development offshore West Africa marked the largest single order in Camerons history, and resulted in subsea orders totaling nearly $1 billion in the quarter.  This, coupled with a record level of drilling orders, resulted in Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) posting the highest quarterly orders in its history at $1.95 billion, Moore said.  In addition, Valves & Measurement (V&M) recorded its highest orders quarter to date, with each of its business lines reaching new highs.  Moore said Camerons total orders exceeded revenues for the sixteenth consecutive quarter, and he noted that the Companys $6.37 billion in total orders for the first nine months of the year already far exceeds 2007s full-year total of $5.38 billion.
At September 30, 2008, the Companys backlog totaled $6.15 billion, up 18 percent from the $5.22 billion level at the end of the second quarter, and up 49 percent from the year-ago level of $4.13 billion.
Cash flow reinvested in new facilities, acquisitions, share repurchases
Moore said that Camerons cash flow from operations totaled $512.7 million through the first nine months of 2008, compared with $167.6 million for the same period of 2007.  Year-to-date capital expenditures total $160.4 million, compared with $161.2 million for the 2007 period, and our current estimate for full-year spending is about $260 million, he noted.  We will have spent approximately $40 million this year on our new Romanian surface equipment plant, which should begin operations before year-end, and we will invest about $14 million this year on the continuing expansion of our subsea facility in Malaysia.  Moore also noted that through the end of the third quarter, the Company had spent approximately $98 million on acquisitions and expects to close the $85 million purchase of KB Industries, a blowout preventer manufacturer, during the fourth quarter.  In addition, Moore said that Cameron repurchased 1.4 million shares of its common stock during the quarter at an average price of $43.86 per share, and has spent more than $215 million on share repurchases through the first nine months of the year.
Moore said that Camerons financial health remains solid.  At September 30, 2008, the cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet totaled more than $1.43 billion, and exceeded our total debt by $24.2 million, he said.  With this cash on hand, amounts available under our revolver and our expected strong level of future operating cash flow, we will be able to take advantage of opportunities in this uncertain environment.
Fourth quarter earnings per share estimated at $0.74 to $0.76, full-year 2008 expected to be $2.67 to $2.69, excluding final charge for pension plan termination
 
Based on our current backlog and activity levels, we expect Camerons earnings for the fourth quarter of 2008 to be in the range of $0.74 to $0.76 per share, which would result in full-year earnings of approximately $2.67 to $2.69 per share, Moore said.  The primary factors affecting these expectations will be our customers spending, particularly on our shorter-cycle product lines, and our ability to execute on current project business and effectively manage costs.
Moore noted that the above figures do not include an expected charge of approximately $0.09 per share related to the completion of the previously announced termination of the Companys U.S. pension plans.  This non-cash, pre-tax charge of approximately $31.0 million will represent the final settlement of the Companys pension obligations under our U.S. plans, Moore said.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including fourth quarter and full-year 2008 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding  profitability, cash flow, full-year capital spending, capital spending for construction of new facilities, completion of pending acquisitions and the estimated costs related to terminating the U. S. pension plans, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea systems and drilling projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the Companys ability to successfully implement its capital expenditures program; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it makes as a result thereof in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
Cameron
Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheets
($ millions)
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
($ millions)
 
 
 
Cameron
Orders and Backlog
($ millions)
Orders
Backlog
 
 
 
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions)
 
 
 
Cameron
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Financial Information
($ millions)


