FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20090804073229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On August 4, 2009, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
August 4, 2009
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
2009-11
R. Scott Amann
Contact:               
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.60, EXCLUDING NET GAIN OF $0.02 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (August 4, 2009) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $138.6 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, compared with net income of $148.8 million, or $0.64 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2008.  The second quarter 2009 results include a pretax charge of $10.9 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, for severance-related costs and a gain of $0.05 per diluted share related to certain tax matters.  The Companys results for the second quarter and first half of 2008 have been revised to reflect a new accounting standard, which became effective on January 1, 2009, related to convertible debt.
Total revenues were $1,270.0 million for the quarter, down 14 percent from 2008s $1,480.6 million.  Earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation, excluding restructuring costs, were $246.4 million, down 4 percent from the $255.5 million of a year ago, while income before income taxes was $173.5 million, down 21 percent from the $218.5 million of a year ago.  Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore saidthat the results reflect solid performances in several areas across the Company.  Our people continue to execute and perform well in a difficult market, Moore said.  The Drilling & Production Systems group (DPS), particularly the Drilling Systems business, recorded a highly profitable mix of revenues, including the delivery of certain projects earlier than originally scheduled.  Our Valves & Measurement group (V&M) and the Compression Systems group saw revenues decline from year-ago levels, but they also did an admirable job of maintaining margins.  Moore noted that Camerons recent reinvestment in upgrading many of its manufacturing facilities is having a meaningful impact on the Companys financial performance.  Our efforts to improve efficiency, reduce costs and lower cycle times have allowed us to reinforce our position as a low-cost manufacturer in many of our markets, he said.  Moore also said that while the Companys effective tax rate was approximately 20 percent for the quarter as a result of the resolution of various tax uncertainties, Cameron expects a 27 percent tax rate for the foreseeable future due to several changes in the Companys overseas tax structure.
 
 
 
 
Orders decline year-over-year, approximate first quarter levels; backlog still exceeds $5 billion
Total orders for the second quarter of 2009 were $902 million, down from $1.8 billion a year ago.  Moore noted that while orders across all business lines are well below year-ago levels, they were down only modestly on a sequential basis.  Factors affecting orders include the lack of large subsea orders in DPS, continued delays in large project orders in V&M and the impact of weak global economies on Compression Systems centrifugal markets, Moore said.  We expect the second half of the year to be more active in terms of subsea awards, and we hope to see some pickup in orders in certain valve- and compression-related markets.  He noted that year-to-date orders totaled approximately $1.9 billion, down from the $3.76 billion of the first half of 2008, and that at June 30, 2009, total backlog was $5.02 billion, down from the first quarter of 2009s $5.27 billion and the June 30, 2008 level of $5.22 billion.
 
Capital spending on track
Moore said that Cameron spent approximately $108 million in capital expenditures in the first half, including approximately $49 million related to the Malaysian subsea facility expansion and the new Romanian surface equipment plant.  We expect to spend another $46 million on the completion of these two projects, Moore said, and we anticipate that capital expenditures will total approximately $220 million for the full year 2009.
 
NATCO transaction awaiting regulatory approval
Cameron has completed the required regulatory filings related to the previously announced proposed acquisition of NATCO Group Inc., including a Registration Statement on Form S-4 and antitrust filings in the applicable jurisdictions.  Moore said that the closing date of the acquisition will depend on the timing of the receipt of all necessary regulatory approvals from the agencies involved.  He noted that Cameron and NATCO have received a request for additional information from the Department of Justice, and said the companies remain hopeful that the closing could take place by the end of the third quarter or during the fourth quarter.
 
Balance sheet remains strong
At June 30, 2009, Camerons cash and cash equivalents of $1.54 billion exceeded its total debt by approximately $106 million.  Moore noted that Cameron did not repurchase any shares of its common stock during the second quarter, and that there are restrictions on the Company buying its common shares in the market until the NATCO transaction is closed.  The pending acquisition has not diminished our interest in additional acquisition targets, Moore said, and we also expect to be back in the market as an opportunistic buyer of our own stock once we are free of the restrictions.
 
 
 
Full-year earnings expectations raised
Moore said that Camerons third quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of approximately $0.50 to $0.55 per share, and that full-year earnings, excluding severance costs or other charges or gains, are expected to be approximately $2.15 to $2.25 per he
share, compared with t
Companys previous guidance of $1.85 to $2.00 per share for the year.  Moore also said that these figures assume no impact from the pending acquisition of NATCO.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future earnings of the Company (including third quarter and full year 2009 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding future cash flows and use of funds for capital spending, acquisitions and stock repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels based on these expectations.  Finally, results could be affected by the following factors related to the proposed acquisition of NATCO:  the ability to satisfy the closing conditions of the transaction, including obtaining regulatory approvals for the transaction and the approval of the merger agreement by the NATCO stockholders; the timing of the satisfaction of the required approvals; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the impact of other acquisitions that Cameron or NATCO have made or may make before the transaction; and competition and its effect on pricing.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


