FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20090203073112.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
(17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
On February 3, 2009, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2008.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
 The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
   
 
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      
February 3, 2009
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
2009-4 
R. Scott Amann
Contact:               
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON FOURTH QUARTER EARNINGS TOTAL $0.75 PER SHARE, EXCLUDING NON-CASH CHARGE OF $0.08 PER SHARE RELATED TO PENSION PLAN TERMINATION
HOUSTON (February 3, 2009)  Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $149.1 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2008, compared with net income in the prior years fourth quarter of $125.9 million, or $0.54 per diluted share. The fourth quarter 2008 results include a non-cash, after-tax charge of $16.5 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, associated with the previously announced termination of the Companys U.S. pension plans.  The fourth quarter 2007 results included a non-cash, after-tax charge of $22.1 million, or $0.10 per share, associated with the pension plan termination, as well as a reduction in income tax expense of $7.1 million, or $0.03 per share, related to certain tax gains.  Excluding the above items, the Companys earnings per diluted share were $0.75 for the fourth quarter of 2008, up from $0.61 for the fourth quarter of 2007.
Revenues up 13 percent for quarter, 25 percent for year
Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2008 were $1.52 billion, up 13 percent from the prior year and one percent sequentially.  Revenues for the year were a record $5.85 billion, up 25 percent from 2007s record $4.67 billion.  Net income per diluted share for 2008 was $2.60, compared to $2.16 for 2007; excluding unusual items, earnings per diluted share were $2.68 for 2008 and $2.11 for 2007.
 
 
Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said that the Companys record results reflect a solid performance by Camerons employees across all business lines, even given the slowdown in activity experienced in the last several months of the year.  We entered 2008 expecting our greatest challenge to be delivering on the record backlogs in our businesses, Moore said.  Our people fulfilled our expectations on that front, and have performed well in dealing with the slowdown we are now seeing.
Orders, backlog reflect fourth quarter weakness in markets
Orders booked in 2008s fourth quarter totaled $1.17 billion, down from the $1.49 billion of a year ago, due to declines in Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) and Compression Systems, although Valves & Measurements (V&M) fourth quarter orders were up from the prior year.
Orders for the full year were a record $7.54 billion, up 40 percent from 2007s $5.38 billion, as DPSs orders were up by more than 50 percent for the year.  Moore noted that the order gains were driven by several large subsea projects and several sizable drilling bookings.  The Companys market share of orders in these businesses confirms Camerons role as a leading provider of expertise and technology for complex subsea installations and blowout preventers and controls for deepwater applications, he said.
Total backlog at year-end was $5.61 billion, up 31 percent from the $4.27 billion of a year ago, but down nine percent from the record $6.15 billion backlog at the end of the third quarter of 2008.  As in recent years, but even more importantly, in a market like todays, these backlog levels provide a meaningful degree of visibility to our results and allow us to more effectively manage our capacity utilization in our manufacturing and service facilities, Moore said.
Cash flow remains healthy, supports variety of uses
Moore said that Camerons cash flow from operations totaled nearly $988 million in 2008, compared with $452 million in 2007.  We reinvested approximately $272 million in capital expenditures during the year, with much of that aimed at lowering costs and improving efficiency in our facilities, and spent nearly $192 millionthe most since 2005on several acquisitions across our product lines, Moore said.  We also spent nearly $280 million on share repurchases in 2008, including fourth quarter purchases of 2.7 million shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $22.57 per share.
Moore said that he expects cash flow in 2009 to once again be more than adequate to fund the Companys needs. We expect to spend approximately $200 million on capital expenditures this year, he noted, including about $100 million to complete the expansion of the Malaysian subsea facility and the new Romanian surface plant.
 
 
 
2009 earnings to decline in face of difficult markets, lower customer spending
Moore said Cameron currently expects its 2009 earnings to be in the range of $1.75 to $2.00 per diluted share, depending on a variety of factors.  While our year-end backlog provides a measure of visibility toward a base level of revenues and earnings, there are several issues that are likely to affect results for our businesses, he said.  These include the level and timing of customer spending, which will be affected by oil and gas prices, cash flow and credit access; the balance between pricing pressure from customers and competitors and our success in reducing our own raw material and overhead costs; and our ability to efficiently execute on the backlogs in each of our businesses.
Moore said Camerons first quarter 2009 earnings are expected to be approximately $0.59 to $0.62 per diluted share, with the primary factors being execution, pricing and cost impacts, and the level of shorter-cycle business that customers choose to pursue in the near term.
While 2009 will be a challenging year across all of our business lines, he said, Cameron is stronger than we have ever been when entering a down-cycle.  Our combination of short- and long-cycle businesses, record backlog, strong cash position, cash generation capability and disciplined approach to capital allocation will allow us to take advantage of opportunities during this downturn, maintain our leadership positions and emerge as an even better competitor in our markets.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future market strength, customer spending and order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including first quarter and full year 2009 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding equipment deliveries, margins, profitability, the ability to control and reduce raw material, overhead and operating costs, capital spending and cash flow, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellation of orders in backlog; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes in cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


