FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20090507073240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On May 7, 2009, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:                      
May 7, 2009
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
2009-6
                 R. Scott Amann
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.59, EXCLUDING CHARGE OF $0.07 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (May 7, 2009) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $114.6 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, compared with net income of $123.0 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2008.  The first quarter 2009 results include a pretax charge of $22.3 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, for severance-related costs incurred during the quarter.  In addition, the Companys results for the first quarter of 2008 and the balance sheet at December 31, 2008 have been revised to reflect a new accounting standard, which became effective on January 1, 2009, related to convertible debt.
Year-over-year revenues decline; earnings, excluding charge, higher
Revenues were $1,257.0 million for the quarter, down six percent from 2008s $1,339.3 million, and income before income taxes was $167.3 million (including the $22.3 million charge), down seven percent from $180.5 million a year ago.  Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said that the revenue decline is due primarily to the timing of certain subsea project deliveries in Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) and lower sales in the Distributed Valves component of the Valves & Measurement (V&M) group, reflecting softness in the North American market.  He also noted that improved project-related margins drove the year-over-year increase in earnings, excluding charges.
 
 
 
Orders reflect soft markets, lack of sizable project awards
Total orders were $983 million for the quarter, down from $1.95 billion in the first quarter of 2008, due largely to overall market weakness and a lack of large project awards.  Lower activity levels, particularly in North American markets, along with customer cash flow and credit issues, are affecting our customers spending, particularly in our shorter-cycle businesses, Moore said.  In addition, our first quarter 2008 orders included a large subsea project worth approximately $650 million, making the comparison with current-year orders more difficult.
Camerons backlog declined from $5.61 billion at year-end 2008 to $5.27 billion at the end of the first quarter, but was up eight percent from the March 31, 2008 level of $4.90 billion.
Cash generation for year expected to more than cover internal needs
Camerons operations utilized cash of $128.3 million during the first quarter of 2009, compared with generating cash flow from operations of $44.3 million a year ago.  Moore said the cash utilization in the first quarter was due to an increase in the Companys inventories, primarily to meet customer delivery requirements in the project-related businesses.  This inventory growth will be reversed in subsequent quarters, Moore said, and we still expect to generate ample free cash for the full year.  He also noted that Cameron expects its capital spending during 2009 to be approximately $200 million, down from $272 million last year, with about half of that directed toward the completion of the Malaysian subsea facility expansion and the new Romanian surface equipment plant.
Balance sheet remains strong, share buybacks continue
As of March 31, 2009, Camerons cash and cash equivalents of $1.44 billion exceeded its total debt by approximately $35 million.  Our balance sheet is healthy and we continue to assess opportunities for uses of cash, Moore said, including acquisitions and timely repurchases of our own stock. He noted that Cameron repurchased approximately 348,000 shares of its common stock during the first quarter at an average price of about $20.29 per share.
 
Earnings guidance adjusted to reflect latest market expectations, lower tax rate
Moore said that Camerons second quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.45 to $0.48 per share, and that the Company anticipates that full-year 2009 earnings will be in the range of $1.85 to $2.00 per share, compared with earlier expectations of $1.75 to $2.00.  He noted that the full-year figures exclude the severance costs recorded in the first quarter results, and any similar charges that may be recognized during the year.  The improvement in the lower end of our guidance reflects our expectation that we will continue to efficiently execute on delivery of projects in backlog, as well as an anticipated improvement in our tax rate for the balance of the year. Moore said.  While declines in rig count and related activity in North America have continued, and we expect to see pressure on our sales and margins in certain product lines or regions during the balance of the year, those factors are reflected in our updated guidance.  Moore said the Company is continuing to address costs in its supply chain and closely monitor capital spending, and will take whatever steps are necessary to deal with slowdowns in its markets.
 
 
 
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
###
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future cash flows, severance costs, improvements in tax rates and earnings of the Company (including second quarter and full year 2009 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding capital spending, acquisitions and stock repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellations of orders; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


