FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20090728190829.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
[X]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[   ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[   ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this document may contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Cameron cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Cameron and NATCO, including future financial and operating results, the new companys plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
The following additional factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to satisfy the closing conditions of the transaction, including obtaining regulatory approvals for the transaction and the approval of the merger agreement by the NATCO stockholders; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the impact of other acquisitions that Cameron or NATCO have made or may make before the transaction; competition and its effect on pricing; and exploration and development spending by E&P operators. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Camerons and NATCOs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (), which are available at the SECs web site http://www.sec.gov.  Cameron and NATCO disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
SEC
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed merger, Cameron has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 and NATCO has filed a proxy statement, which will be mailed to NATCOs stockholders. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO CAREFULLY READ THE S-4 AND PROXY STATEMENT REGARDING THE PROPOSED MERGER BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.  You may obtain a free copy of the S-4 and proxy statement and other related documents filed by Cameron and NATCO with the SEC at the SECs website at www.sec.gov.  The S-4 and proxy statement and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Camerons website at www.c-a-m.com under the heading Investor Relations and then under the heading SEC Filings or by accessing NATCOs website at www.natcogroup.com under the tab Investor Relations and then under the heading SEC Filings.
 
2
 
Participants in the Solicitation
NATCO and its directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be soliciting proxies from its stockholders in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in NATCOs proxy statement when it is filed with the SEC. You can find information about NATCOs executive officers and directors in their definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 23, 2009. You can obtain free copies of these documents from NATCOs website as stated above.
 
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  July 28, 2009
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
5

Exhibit 99.1
2009-10
                 R. Scott Amann
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON RECEIVES SECOND REQUEST RELATED TO NATCO ACQUISITION
HOUSTON (July 28, 2009) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) has received a request for additional information and documentary material (commonly referred to as a second request) from the Department of Justice with regard to its Hart-Scott-Rodino filing related to the proposed acquisition of NATCO Group Inc., and is in the process of providing the Department of Justice with additional information on certain product lines.
Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said, We have been working closely with the DOJ for the last month and will continue to do so until their review is complete. We have not ruled out closing by the end of the third quarter, but its possible that we will not have received all the necessary approvals until sometime in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com


