FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20091103073201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On November 3, 2009, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
November 3, 2009
 
 
 
 
 

 Exhibit 99.1
2009-15
                 R. Scott Amann
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.56
HOUSTON (November 3, 2009) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $124.9 million, or $0.56 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, compared with net income of $163.0 million, or $0.71 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2008.  The third quarter 2009 results include a pretax charge of $5.9 million, or $0.02 per share, for severance-related costs.
Total revenues were $1,231.8 million for the quarter, down 18 percent from 2008s $1,504.7 million, while income before income taxes was $168.6 million, down 30 percent from the $242.2 million of a year ago.  Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said, The results reflect a continued focus on exceptional execution by our team in a difficult market.  Moore also noted that margins held up well during the quarter.
Orders in subsea business drive increase in backlog
Orders received during the third quarter of 2009 totaled $1,343.0 million, up from the levels of the first two quarters of 2009.  Drilling & Production Systems orders benefited from the bookings associated with a multi-year frame agreement for subsea equipment offshore Brazil, Moore said, as well as a significant order for multiphase pumping systems booked by Petreco, Camerons process systems business.  He also noted that orders in Valves & Measurement and Compression Systems reached their highest quarterly totals to date during 2009; as a result, Camerons total orders exceeded revenues during the quarter for the first time since the third quarter of 2008, driving an increase in the Companys total backlog.
At September 30, 2009, Camerons backlog totaled $5.12 billion, up from the $5.02 billion level at the end of the second quarter.
Cash flow supporting reinvestment in business
Moore said that Camerons cash flow from operations totaled $184.1 million through the first nine months of 2009.  Year-to-date capital expenditures total $163.7 million, compared with $160.4 million for the 2008 period, and our current estimate for full-year spending is about $240 million, he noted.  We have spent approximately $60 million so far this year on our new Romanian surface equipment plant, which opened in early October and is ramping up its manufacturing capabilities, and on the continuing expansion of our subsea facility in Malaysia.
Moore said that Camerons financial position remains solid.  At September 30, 2009, the cash and cash equivalents on our balance sheet totaled $1.53 billion, and exceeded our total debt by approximately $237 million, he said.  We continue to evaluate possible acquisition opportunities, and we expect to resume our share repurchase program once the restrictions associated with the pending NATCO acquisition are lifted.
 
 
 
 
 
NATCO transaction expected to close during fourth quarter
Cameron expects to close the acquisition of NATCO Group Inc. during the fourth quarter of 2009, subject to the resolution of remaining antitrust issues and approval by NATCOs stockholders.  Moore said that the related Registration Statement on Form S-4 was declared effective on October 16, NATCOs Proxy Statement was mailed to its stockholders beginning October 19, and that NATCOs stockholders are expected to approve the transaction at a November 18 special meeting.  We expect to be in a position to close the acquisition once the stockholder approval is confirmed, perhaps as soon as the day of the special meeting, Moore noted.  We look forward to completing the closing process and moving ahead with the integration of NATCOs people and businesses with those of Cameron.
Full-year earnings per share expected to be $2.26 to $2.30
 
Camerons full-year earnings, excluding any charges or gains, are expected to be in the range of approximately $2.26 to $2.30 per share, Moore said.  As always, the results will depend on such factors as customers spending, our project execution and effective cost management.  Moore noted that this guidance does not include any impact from the pending NATCO acquisition.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including fourth quarter and full-year 2009 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding  profitability, cash flow, full-year capital spending, capital spending for construction of new facilities, and completion of pending acquisitions, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea systems and drilling projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the Companys ability to successfully implement its capital expenditures program; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it makes as a result thereof in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


