FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20091117163805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01  Other Events.
On November 17, 2009, Cameron International Corporation (the ) issued a press release announcing that it has reached an agreement with the Department of Justice that will allow the Company to close on its previously announced acquisition of NATCO Group Inc.  A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Company
Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this document may contain forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  Cameron cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the business combination transaction involving Cameron and NATCO, including future financial and operating results, the new companys plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts.
The following additional factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the ability to satisfy the closing conditions of the transaction, including obtaining regulatory approvals for the transaction and the approval of the merger agreement by the NATCO stockholders; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the impact of other acquisitions that Cameron or NATCO have made or may make before the transaction; competition and its effect on pricing; and exploration and development spending by E&P operators. Additional factors that may affect future results are contained in Camerons and NATCOs filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (), which are available at the SECs web site http://www.sec.gov.  Cameron and NATCO disclaim any obligation to update and revise statements contained in these materials based on new information or otherwise.
SEC
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed merger, Cameron has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 and NATCO has filed a proxy statement, which has been mailed to NATCOs stockholders. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO CAREFULLY READ THE S-4 AND PROXY STATEMENT REGARDING THE PROPOSED MERGER BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.  You may obtain a free copy of the S-4 and proxy statement and other related documents filed by Cameron and NATCO with the SEC at the SECs website at www.sec.gov.  The S-4 and proxy statement and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing Camerons website at www.c-a-m.com under the heading Investor Relations and then under the heading SEC Filings or by accessing NATCOs website at www.natcogroup.com under the tab Investor Relations and then under the heading SEC Filings.
 
 
 
Participants in the Solicitation
NATCO and its directors, executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be soliciting proxies from its stockholders in favor of the merger. Information regarding the persons who may, under the rules of the SEC, be considered participants in the solicitation of the stockholders in connection with the proposed merger will be set forth in NATCOs proxy statement when it is filed with the SEC. You can find information about NATCOs executive officers and directors in their definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 23, 2009. You can obtain free copies of these documents from NATCOs website as stated above.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:  November 18, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
2009-16
R. Scott Amann
Contact:   
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON REACHES AGREEMENT WITH DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE CLEARING WAY FOR COMPLETION OF NATCO ACQUISITION
HOUSTON (November 17, 2009)  Cameron (NYSE: CAM) has reached an agreement with the Department of Justice that will allow the Company to close on its previously announced acquisition of NATCO Group Inc.
Under the agreement, Cameron will divest its Edge refinery desalter business and will license, on a non-exclusive basis, NATCOs DUAL FREQUENCY electrostatic technology for refinery desalter products.  The combined revenues of these businesses would have represented less than two-hundredths of one percent of Camerons 2008 revenues.
Cameron expects to close the acquisition as soon as practicable following the approval by NATCOs shareholders at a special meeting held on November 18.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding the closing, and timing thereof, of the acquisition, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
 


