FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20100209071646.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On February 9, 2010, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
February 9, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
2010-3 
R. Scott Amann
Contact:                
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
 
CAMERON FOURTH QUARTER EARNINGS $0.54 PER SHARE, EXCLUDING CHARGES OF $0.13 PER SHARE
 
 
HOUSTON (February 9, 2010)  Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $97.3 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, for the quarter ended December 31, 2009, compared with net income in the prior years fourth quarter of $146.0 million, or $0.66 per diluted share. The fourth quarter 2009 results include after-tax charges of $31.1 million, or $0.13 per share, comprised of severance-related costs in certain of the Companys businesses and charges associated with the acquisition of NATCO Group Inc., which was closed in mid-November.  The fourth quarter 2008 results included a non-cash, after-tax charge of $16.5 million, or $0.08 per diluted share, associated with the termination of the Companys U.S. pension plans.  Excluding the above items, the Companys earnings per diluted share were $0.54 for the fourth quarter of 2009, compared with $0.74 for the fourth quarter of 2008.
Revenues down four percent for quarter, 11 percent for year
Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2009 were $1.46 billion, down four percent from the prior year, but up 19 percent sequentially.  Revenues for the year were $5.22 billion, down 11 percent from 2008s record $5.85 billion.  Earnings per diluted share for 2009 were $2.11, compared to $2.54 for 2008; excluding unusual items, earnings per diluted share were $2.38 for 2009 and $2.62 for 2008.
 
 
 
Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said that the Company saw, as expected, a decline in margins across several of Camerons product lines in the quarter and the impact of an increased percentage of revenues associated with subsea projects, which typically carry lower margins than other Cameron businesses.  Our results in the quarter were in-line with our expectations and reflect solid performance by our people, particularly in the execution of project-related business, Moore said.  Camerons full-year results, which surpassed our early 2009 forecasts, reflected the strength and quality of our backlog, significant progress on cost control and a continuing focus on execution of deepwater projects in the subsea and drilling markets.
Orders increase over year-ago quarter; backlog remains above $5 billion at year-end
Orders booked in 2009s fourth quarter totaled $1.37 billion, up from the $1.17 billion of a year ago and up sequentially from the third quarter, as gains in Drilling & Production Systems and Valves & Measurement more than offset slight declines in Compression Systems.
Moore noted that in spite of a difficult market environment, Cameron booked a substantial level of deepwater project business, including the largest subsea tree order ever placed in Brazil and Chevrons high-profile Jack & St. Malo subsea development in the Gulf of Mexico.  These sizable subsea bookings and stabilization in orders in other parts of our business, along with the acquisition of NATCO, have allowed our backlog to increase modestly from mid-year levels, Moore said.
Cash flow remains strong, expected to fund 2010 needs
Moore said that Camerons cash flow from operations totaled approximately $613 million in 2009, compared with $988 million in 2008.  We spent approximately $241 million in capital expenditures during the year, continuing our focus on lowering costs and improving efficiency, Moore said.  He also noted that while the Company was not permitted to make share repurchases until the NATCO acquisition was closed in mid-November, it still purchased nearly 590,000 shares at an average price of approximately $37.65 per share in the fourth quarter alone.
Moore said that he expects cash flow in 2010 to comfortably fund the Companys needs, with capital expenditures anticipated to total approximately $180 million.
2010 earnings expected to be at level similar to 2009; NATCO acquisition to be accretive
Moore said Cameron currently expects its 2010 earnings to be in the range of $2.10 to $2.20 per diluted share, excluding the impact on any charges related to restructuring or integration activities.  We enter 2010 with another solid backlog, more than half of which is Subsea Systems business, Moore said.  As a result, we expect subsea revenues to be up substantially over the year-ago levels, but that project-related business will, as is typical, carry lower margins than most of our other product lines.  Meanwhile, we continue to see some pressure on margins in shorter-cycle businesses, but we expect Camerons overall margins to trough during 2010. Finally, we anticipate the NATCO acquisition will be accretive for the year, excluding integration costs.  All of these factors are reflected in our full-year earnings guidance, but are, as always, subject to customer spending levels and our execution on delivering backlog and controlling costs.
 
 
 
Moore also said Camerons first quarter 2010 earnings are expected to be approximately $0.48 to $0.50 per diluted share, with the actual level dependent on a variety of factors, including those described above.
Our 2009 performance was impressive, considering that we entered the year with a great deal of concern over the risk of cancellations and uncertainty with regard to customer spending, he noted.  We begin 2010 with few concerns about the quality of our backlog and a sense that our customers confidence in the security and viability of their spending plans is far greater than a year ago.  We expect to maintain our leadership positions in our markets, continue to pursue acquisition opportunities and remain focused on execution and cost control.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future market strength, customer spending and order levels, revenues and earnings of the Company (including first quarter and full year 2010 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding equipment deliveries, margins, profitability, the ability to control raw material, overhead and operating costs, capital spending and cash flow, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellation of orders in backlog; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes in cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


