FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20100804073338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On August 4, 2010, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2010.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic oppo rtunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
August 4, 2010
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
2010-5
                  R. Scott Amann
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
 
CAMERON SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.58, EXCLUDING CHARGES OF $0.06 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (August 4, 2010) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $129.2 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, compared with net income of $138.6 million, or $0.62 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2009.  The second quarter 2010 results include pretax charges of $18.4 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, related to the continued integration of the NATCO Group Inc. acquisition, as well as severance-related costs and costs associated with investigations and litigation related to the Deepwater Horizon matter.  The second quarter 2009 results included a pretax charge of $10.9 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, for severance-related costs and a gain of $0.05 per diluted share related to certain tax matters.
Total revenues were $1,452.7 million for the quarter, up 14 percent from 2009s $1,270.0 million.  Earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation (EBITDA), excluding charges, were $263.0 million, up seven percent from the $246.4 million of a year ago, while income before income taxes was $172.3 million, down slightly from the $173.5 million of a year ago.  Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore saidthat the gains in revenues and EBITDA reflect an exceptional focus on execution by the Companys employees across numerous busi nesses in the wake of the Deepwater Horizon tragedy.  Revenues increased in Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) and Valves & Measurement (V&M) both year-over-year and sequentially, Moore said, while the Compression Systems group saw revenues decline from year-ago levels due to continuing softness in their industrial markets worldwide.  Moore noted that the year-over-year gains in DPS revenues reflect the 2009 acquisition of NATCO and increased subsea systems deliveries.  With regard to margins, Moore said, We expected to see a decline in the overall EBITDA margins for DPS as subsea deliveries became a larger component of the revenue mix, but solid performances across the drilling, surface and process systems businesses more than offset this impact, driving a sequential increase in margins.  We do still expect some moderation in margins as we work through our subsea backlog, and this has been incorporated into our guidance. 
 
 
Orders increase 54 percent over prior year, backlog declines modestly
 
Total orders for the second quarter of 2010 were $1.39 billion, up from $902 million a year ago.  Moore noted that increases in DPS drilling business and in V&M were the primary drivers, with surface and process systems also posting solid gains.  North American markets continued to be strong during the quarter, Moore said, including the booking of a sizable surface production equipment order in the Gulf of Mexico for the Davy Jones development, as well as the initial order of a Cameron 20,000-psi BOP, for use on a jackup rig.  He noted that year-to-date orders totaled approximately $2.60 bill ion, up from the $1.89 billion of the first half of 2009, and that at June 30, 2010, total backlog was $4.92 billion, down modestly from the first quarter of 2010s $4.98 billion.
 
 
 
Capital reinvestment continues, balance sheet remains strong
 
Camerons operations utilized cash totaling $155.4 million in the first six months of 2010, reflecting an ongoing build in working capital as project-related activity, particularly in subsea systems, continued to ramp up.   Moore also noted that Cameron spent approximately $68 million in capital expenditures in the first half.  We now expect capital spending to total approximately $200 million for 2010, Moore said, as we continue to focus on investments in our aftermarket facilities and efficiency gains.
At June 30, 2010, Camerons cash and cash equivalents of $1.43 billion exceeded its total debt by approximately $158 million.  Moore said that year-to-date, Cameron has repurchased approximately 3.2 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of nearly $124 million.
 
Full-year earnings expectations raised
 
Moore said that Camerons third quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of approximately $0.58 to $0.60 per share, and that full-year earnings, excluding charges, are expected to be approximately $2.30 to $2.35 per he
share, compared with t
Companys previous guidance of $2.20 to $2.30 per share.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
 
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
 
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future earnings of the Company (including third quarter and full- year 2010 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding future cash flows and use of funds for capital spending made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of fact ors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include the ultimate outcome of the claims that have been made against the Company arising out of or related to the Deepwater Horizon matter; the overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business, including the United States, which has imposed an offshore drilling moratorium; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic ac tivity.  In general, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


