FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20101102073301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On November 2, 2010, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic oppo rtunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
November 2,  2010
 
 
 
 
 

 
2010-7
                 R. Scott Amann
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.64, EXCLUDING CHARGES OF $0.03 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (November 2, 2010) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $148.7 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, compared with net income of $124.9 million, or $0.56 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2009.  The current quarters results include pretax charges of $10.4 million, or $0.03 per share, related to the continued integration of NATCO Group Inc. and litigation costs associated with the Deepwater Horizon matter, while the third quarter 2009 results included a pretax charge of $5.9 million, or $0.02 per share, for severance-related costs.
Total revenues were $1,527.1 million for the quarter, up 24 percent from 2009s $1,231.8 million, while income before income taxes was $185.1 million, up nearly ten percent from the $168.6 million of a year ago.  Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said, While we did see improvement in a number of our businesses, overall margins declined in the third quarter and are expected to trough in the fourth quarter.
Process & Compression Systems segment created
Moore said that Camerons Process Systems business, previously a unit of the Drilling & Production Systems segment, has been combined with the Compression Systems organization to create Process & Compression Systems.  This move will allow us to realize cost savings and better focus on the markets served by our processing and separation businesses, while continuing to benefit from Camerons ability to combine product offerings from multiple business lines to offer cooperative services and solutions to our customers, Moore said.
 
 
 
 
 
Orders move higher on strength in several product lines
Orders received during the third quarter of 2010 totaled $1.48 billion, representing the Companys highest quarterly total since the third quarter of 2008 and a ten percent increase over the prior years quarter.  The value of our diverse market exposure is apparent in the current quarters bookings, Moore said.  While there were no large projects booked during the quarter, several of Camerons businesses posted solid order levels, including drilling, distributed and engineered valves, centrifugal compression and process systems.  We also saw continued strength in drilling aftermarket, where orders exceeded $100 million in the quarter.
Moore said that year-to-date orders totaled $4.08 billion, up from $3.23 billion in the first nine months of 2009.  At September 30, 2010, Camerons backlog was $4.94 billion, up from $4.92 billion at the end of the second quarter and down from the $5.12 billion level of a year ago.
Cash flow strong in quarter, capital spending expectation maintained
Moore said that Camerons cash flow from operations totaled $94.9 million in the quarter, partially offsetting the cash used in the first half of the year due to builds in working capital.  We expect to generate cash again in the fourth quarter, Moore said, and comfortably fund our cash needs for the year.  He noted that year-to-date capital expenditures totaled $115.0 million, compared with $163.7 million for the same period in 2009, and that the Company still expects capital spending to total approximately $200 million for the year.  With no major expansion projects under way, our focus remains on enhancing our aftermarket reach and capabilities and improving manufacturing efficiencies and cost structure, he said.
With regard to Camerons balance sheet, Moore said, At September 30, 2010, our cash and cash equivalents totaled $1.51 billion, exceeding our total debt by approximately $223.1 million.  We continue to evaluate acquisition opportunities, and we expect that our liquidity will allow us to take advantage of any opportunities that may develop.
Fourth quarter earnings per share expected to be $0.65 to $0.67
Camerons fourth quarter earnings, excluding any charges or gains, are expected to be in the range of approximately $0.65 to $0.67 per share, resulting in full-year earnings of approximately $2.38 to $2.40, excluding charges, Moore said.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future earnings of the Company (including fourth quarter and full- year 2010 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding future cash flows and use of funds for capital spending made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidit y or financial condition.  Such factors may include the ultimate outcome of the claims that have been made against the Company arising out of or related to the Deepwater Horizon matter; the overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellations of orders in backlog; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business, including the ongoing effects of a temporary moratorium imposed by the United States government on drilling activities in deepwater areas of the Gulf of Mexico, which has re cently been lifted; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  As a result, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the demand for the Companys products and services and the Companys financial results due to changes in cost structure, staffing and spending levels the Company makes in response thereto.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations.
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


