FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20111027082758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2011, Cameron International Corporation ("Cameron") issued a press release announcing its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2011.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA) and adjusted EPS.  A reconciliation of EBITDA and adjusted EPS to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA and adjusted EPS are useful to the Companys investors because (i) EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions and (ii) adjusted EPS is useful in analyzing the companys on-going earnings potential and understanding certain significant items impacting the comparability of our results.  In addition, EBITDA and adjusted EPS are widely used benchmarks in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
October 27, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
                      Jeff Altamari
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
2011-19
 
CAMERON THIRD QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.78, EXCLUDING CHARGES
HOUSTON (October 27, 2011) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $164.5 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, compared with net income of $148.7 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2010.  The third quarter 2011 results include pre-tax charges of $34.2 million, or $0.11 per share, primarily related to costs associated with retiring the Companys convertible debentures, litigation and mark-to-market losses associated with foreign currency derivatives (see attached reconciliation third quarter 2010 results included pre-tax charges of $10.4 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, related to the integration of the NATCO Group Inc. acquisition, as well as litigation and severance costs.
).The
 
Revenues were $1.69 billion for the quarter, up 10 percent from $1.53 billion a year ago, and income before income taxes was $198.0 million, up seven percent from the $185.1 million a year ago. Cameron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said that the year-over-year revenue increase was due to gains in the Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) and Valves & Measurement (V&M) segments. He noted that EBITDA margins were up for the Company sequentially. Both the DPS and V&M segments drove these margin improvements.
Total orders were $2.0 billion for the quarter, up from $1.48 billion in the third quarter of 2010, for an increase of 35%.  We are pleased at the pace of orders for the quarter, particularly with the strength of our shorter cycle businesses, Moore commented, In fact, this represents our third highest orders quarter in Camerons history.  Surface systems, Distributed Valves,  Process Valves and Measurement had record quarterly orders. Subsea saw a 15% increase sequentially.
 
 
 
Camerons backlog at the end of the third quarter was $5.79 billion, its second highest quarter-end level in history and up from $4.94 billion a year ago.  Moore noted that all three segments increased backlog over the past year with V&M gaining more than 47 percent from year-ago levels.
Capital investment continues, balance sheet strong
Camerons operations generated cash of $104.9 million during the third quarter. Moore said cash flow from operations should continue to accelerate in the fourth quarter as Camerons working capital needs moderate. Moore also noted that Cameron spent approximately $228 million in capital expenditures in the first three quarters. Depending on the pace of expenditures on several large expansion projects, capital spending should approximate $350 million for 2011, Moore said. We continue to focus on investments in our aftermarket and unconventional resource related businesses, as well as our Brazilian capacity expansion, Moore added. He also noted that the Company called its 2.5% convertible debentures during the second quarter and the cash repurchase was completed during the third quarter. He said that this resulted in a 5.2 million share reduction from the first quarter of 2011.
Moore said that as of September 30, 2011, Camerons $1.54 billion of cash and cash equivalents was exceeded by its total debt by approximately $50 million.
Full-year earnings guidance
Moore said Camerons full-year 2011 earnings, excluding charges, will be in the range of $2.63 to $2.66 per share.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
###
 
 
 
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future cash flows, costs, margins, free cash flow and earnings of the Company (including fourth quarter and full-year 2011 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding cash and capital needs, acquisitions and stock repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellations of orders; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Individual adjustments assume a 16.9% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 247.1 million diluted shares
(2)
      These derivatives have not been designated as accounting hedges
(3)
      Includes $11.5 million of costs associated with retiring the 2.5% convertible debentures
(4)
      Individual adjustments assume a 19.7% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 245.5 million diluted shares
(2)
 
      Individual adjustments assume a 19.6% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 249.8 million diluted shares
(2)
      These derivatives have not been designated as accounting hedges
(3)
      Includes $9.8 million of costs associated with retiring the 2.5% convertible debentures
(4)
      Individual adjustments assume a 23.1% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 247.0 million diluted shares
(2)


