FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20110428081930.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On April 28, 2011, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     April
28, 2011
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
2011-10
                R. Scott Amann
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.46, EXCLUDING CHARGE OF $0.03 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (April 28, 2011) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $109.5 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, compared with net income of $120.4 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2010.  The first quarter 2011 results include after-tax charges of $7.0 million, or $0.03 per share, primarily related to litigation costs associated with the Deepwater Horizon matter.  The first quarter 2010 results included after-tax charges of $7.7 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, for severance-related costs in certain of the Companys businesses and acquisition integration costs.  Cameron President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore noted that previously announced charges totaling $43.9 million after-tax, or $0.17 per share, related to cost overruns on a subsea project and the Libya sanctions, are not being accounted for as discrete items.  While these charges are rare and unusual in nature, they reflect the risks of doing business in emerging countries, Moore said, and have been incorporated into our operating results for the first quarter of 2011.
 
Year-over-year revenues increase in all groups
Revenues were $1,501.3 million for the quarter, up 11 percent from $1,346.7 million a year ago, and income before income taxes was $139.9 million (including the charges described above), down 13 percent from $160.5 million (including the $10.3 million pretax charge) a year ago.  Moore said that the year-over-year revenue increase was due to gains in all three of the Companys segments, with particular strength in surface equipment in Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) and shorter-cycle business in Valves & Measurement (V&M), while Process & Compression Systems (PCS) saw revenue gains across its business lines.  He noted that absent the impact of the subsea and Libyan charges, EBITDA margins were in line with the Companys expectations for the quarter.  DPS margins in both the drilling and surface businesses improved over year-ago levels; V&M margins showed a solid recovery sequentially; and margins in the PCS business are up slightly both from the fourth quarter and year-over-year, Moore said.
 
 
 
Orders increase by more than 25 percent, exceed $1.5 billion
Total orders were $1.52 billion for the quarter, up from $1.21 billion in the first quarter of 2010.  Moore said the gain in orders was primarily attributable to solid increases in each of the DPS businesses, including drilling, surface and subsea.  Orders in each of these DPS businesses were up at least 25 percent year-over-year, Moore said, while V&M and PCS both recorded modest gains in total.
Camerons backlog at the end of the first quarter was $4.89 billion, up from the December 31, 2010 level of $4.81 billion and down slightly from $4.98 billion a year ago.  Moore noted that deliveries of drilling and subsea projects continue to work off backlog in those business lines, while gains in surface offset much of the overall decline in the DPS backlog.  Both V&M and PCS have actually increased backlog over the past year, he said, with V&M gaining more than 45 percent from year-ago levels, and PCS up more than 18 percent.
 
Capital investment continues, balance sheet strong
Camerons operations utilized cash of $326.8 million during the first quarter of 2011, compared with a cash use of $115.8 million a year ago.  Moore said that the Companys cash uses typically exceed cash inflows during the first quarter of the year, and that he expects Cameron to again generate meaningful free cash flow for the full year.  He also noted that capital spending is still expected to total approximately $250 to $300 million, up from $200 million in 2010, reflecting multiple opportunities for deployment of capital, including enhanced exposure to North American resource plays, expansion of Brazilian facilities and investment in drilling aftermarket support.
Moore said the Company expects to finance its cash needs internally, and noted that as of March 31, 2011, Camerons $1.45 billion of cash and cash equivalents exceeded its total debt by approximately $152 million.
 
Earnings guidance adjusted to reflect charges
Moore said that Camerons second quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.60 to $0.65 per share, and that the Company anticipates that full-year 2011 earnings will be in the range of $2.50 to $2.60 per share, compared with earlier expectations of $2.65 to $2.75.He noted that the full-year guidance has been adjusted to reflect the inclusion of the previously announced charges totaling approximately $0.17 per share that were recorded in the first quarter results.
 
 
 
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
###
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future cash flows, costs, margins, free cash flow and earnings of the Company (including second quarter and full year 2011 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding cash and capital needs, acquisitions and stock repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellations of orders; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


