FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20110728083104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On July 28, 2011, Cameron issued a press release announcing its results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA).  A reconciliation of EBITDA to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA is useful to the Companys investors because EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions.  In addition, EBITDA is a widely used benchmark in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
July 28, 2011
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
2011-13
                   Jeff Altamari
Contact:   
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.66, EXCLUDING CHARGES OF $0.07 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (July 28, 2011) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $148.0 million, or $0.59 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, compared with net income of $129.2 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2010.  The second quarter 2011 results include pre-tax charges of $20.1 million, or $0.07 per share, primarily related to litigation and restructuring costs.  The second quarter 2010 results included pre-tax charges of $18.4 million, or $0.06 per diluted share, related to the continued integration of the NATCO Group Inc. acquisition, as well as litigation and severance costs.
Year-over-year revenues increase in every segment
Revenues were $1.74 billion for the quarter, up 19.9 percent from $1.45 billion a year ago, and income before income taxes was $187.4 million. Cameron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said that the year-over-year revenue increase was due to gains in all three of the Companys segments, with the Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) and Valves & Measurement (V&M) segments seeing double digit revenue gains.  He noted that EBITDA margins were in line with the Companys expectations for the quarter.  DPS margins sequentially reflected a higher level of subsea revenues which moderated the segments overall margins; V&M margins showed a solid recovery year-over-year and sequentially; and margins in the PCS business are up from the first quarter, Moore said.
 
 
 
Orders increase 72% quarterly records set for several businesses
Total orders were $2.39 billion for the quarter, up from $1.39 billion in the second quarter of 2010, for an increase of 72%.  Moore noted that this was the second highest orders quarter in Camerons history.  Record bookings were established for the drilling, engineered and process valves and the process businesses.  Notable were nine deepwater stack and five jackup awards for the drilling business. Drilling and surface also saw their largest quarterly aftermarket orders in Camerons history. Subsea saw its second highest quarterly orders since 2009. The process business also received two large awards for MEG reclamation units to support deepwater developments.
Camerons backlog at the end of the second quarter was $5.52 billion, up from the first quarter level of $4.89 billion and up from $4.92 billion a year ago.  Moore noted that V&M and PCS increased backlog over the past year with V&M gaining more than 61 percent from year-ago levels, and PCS up 24 percent.
Capital investment continues, balance sheet strong
Camerons operations generated cash of $101.4 million during the second quarter. Moore said cash flow from operations should accelerate in the back half of the year as Camerons working capital needs moderate. Moore also noted that Cameron spent approximately $134.3 million in capital expenditures in the first half. We now expect capital spending to approximate $300 million for 2011, Moore said, as we focus on investments in our aftermarket and unconventional resource related businesses, as well as our Brazilian capacity expansion. Moore noted that the Company called its 2.5% convertible debentures during the second quarter and the cash repurchase should be completed during the third quarter. He said that this would result in a 5.2 million share reduction from the first quarter of 2011.
Moore said that as of June 30, 2011, Camerons $2.04 billion of cash and cash equivalents exceeded its total debt by approximately $89 million.
Full-year earnings guidance raised
Moore said Camerons third quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.70 to $0.75 per share, and the Company anticipates full-year 2011 earnings, excluding charges, will be in the range of $2.55 to $2.65 per share, compared with the previous expectation of $2.50 to $2.60.
 
 
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future cash flows, costs, margins, free cash flow and earnings of the Company (including third quarter and full-year 2011 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding cash and capital needs, acquisitions and stock repurchases, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellations of orders; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           Prior period segment data has been retrospectively revised to reflect the change in segments during the third quarter of 2010
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


