FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20120426081758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On April 26, 2012, Cameron International Corporation (Cameron) issued a press release announcing its results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2012.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense and other costs (credits) (EBITDA) and adjusted EPS.  A reconciliation of EBITDA and adjusted EPS to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA and adjusted EPS are useful to the Companys investors because (i) EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions and (ii) adjusted EPS is useful in analyzing the companys on-going earnings potential and understanding certain significant items impacting the comparability of our results.  In addition, EBITDA and adjusted EPS are widely used benchmarks in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
April 26, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
2012-03
                      Jeff Altamari
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
 
CAMERON FIRST QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.54
 
HOUSTON (April 26, 2012) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $134.0 million, or $0.54 per diluted share, for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, compared with net income of $109.5 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2011.    The first quarter 2011 results included after-tax charges of $7.0 million, or $0.03 per diluted share, primarily related to litigation costs associated with the Deepwater Horizon matter.
Year-over-year revenues increase
Revenues were $1.8 billion for the quarter, up 20 percent from $1.5 billion a year ago, and income before income taxes was $171.8 million up 23 percent from $139.9 million (including the $8.9 million pretax charge) a year ago.  Cameron Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said that the year-over-year revenue increase was due to gains in Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) and Valves & Measurement (V&M).
Orders increase by nearly 70 percent year-over-year, total $2.6 billion, include large Brazil tree order
Total orders were $2.6 billion, up from $1.5 billion in the first quarter of 2011 and $1.9 billion in the fourth quarter of 2011. This represented increases of nearly 70% and 35%, respectively. Moore noted that this was the second highest orders quarter in Camerons history and that all businesses reflected an increase from a year ago. A record was established for the surface systems business.
 
 
 
Orders for the quarter included a $340 million award from Petrobras for thirty pre-salt subsea trees with installation tools, spare parts and accessories to be manufactured outside Brazil.  Moore said, We are pleased to assist Petrobras with these fast track trees and look forward to supporting future subsea awards in our expanded Brazilian facilities. He also noted that in the drilling systems business, a total of eight deepwater stacks as well as eight jackup awards were received during the quarter.
Camerons backlog at the end of the first quarter was $6.8 billion, up from the December 31, 2011 level of $6.0 billion and up from $4.9 billion a year ago.  Moore noted that this is a record backlog level for the Company. This represents sequential as well as year-over-year backlog increases for all of our major business segments, he said. It represents 38% growth from a year ago.
Capital investment continues, acquisitions continue
Camerons operations utilized cash of $203.8 million during the first quarter of 2012 (which included $83 million of cash for the indemnity acquired from BP in the fourth quarter of 2011), compared with a cash use of $326.8 million a year ago.  Moore said that the Companys cash uses typically exceed cash inflows during the first quarter of the year, and that he expects Cameron to generate meaningful cash flow from operations for the full year.  He also noted that capital spending is still expected to total approximately $500 million, up from $388 million in 2011, reflecting multiple opportunities for deployment of capital, including enhanced exposure to North American resource plays, expansion of Brazilian facilities and investment in drilling aftermarket support. The Company has also entered into a contract to acquire the drilling equipment business of TTS Group ASA for $270 million of cash, pending approval by the Norwegian Competition Authorities. Closing is expected in mid - 2012.
Full year earnings guidance maintained
Moore said that Camerons second quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.70 to $0.75 per share, and that the Company anticipates that full-year 2012 earnings are expected to be in the range of $3.20 to $3.30 per share.
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
###
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
 
 
 
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future orders, cash flow and earnings of the Company (including second quarter and full year 2012 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding capital needs and acquisitions, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellations of orders; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Individual adjustments assume a 22.0% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 247.9 million diluted shares
(2)
      These derivatives have not been designated as accounting hedges
(3)
      Individual adjustments assume a 21.7% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 252.1 million diluted shares
(2)


