FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20120517121816.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01
             
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Underwriting Agreement
 
On May 17, 2012, Cameron International Corporation (the "Company") completed the public offering of $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.60% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and $250.0 million aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.60% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes" and, together with the 2015 Notes, the "Notes") pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement, dated May 14, 2012 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), with Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and RBS Securities Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters").
 
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes of approximately $496.1 million (after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and other estimated expenses payable by the Company) to fund the previously announced, pending acquisition of TTS Energy AS, to repay amounts drawn on certain of the Company's short-term overdraft facilities, to repay amounts outstanding under the Company's committed financing arrangements facilitated by the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) and executed through commercial banks, and for general corporate purposes.
 
The Underwriting Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and agreements by the Company, customary conditions to closing, other obligations of the parties and termination provisions.  Additionally, the Company has agreed to indemnify the Underwriters against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"), or to contribute to payments the underwriters may be required to make because of any of those liabilities.
 
The foregoing description is a brief summary of the Underwriting Agreement and does not purport to be a complete statement of the parties' rights and obligations thereunder.  The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Underwriting Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The offering of the Notes was made pursuant to a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333- 178708), which became effective upon its filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on December 22, 2011.  A prospectus supplement dated May 14, 2012 relating to the Notes and supplementing the Prospectus dated December 22, 2011 was filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(2) under the Securities Act.
 
Indenture
 
The Company issued the Notes pursuant to the Indenture, dated May 17, 2012 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented with respect to the 2015 Notes by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated May 17, 2012 (the "First Supplemental Indenture"), and as further supplemented with respect to the 2022 Notes by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated May 17, 2012 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture, the "Indenture"), in each case between the Company and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee.
 
The Company will pay interest on the Notes on April 30 and October 30 of each year, beginning on October 30, 2012.  The 2015 Notes will mature on April 30, 2015 and the 2022 Notes will mature on April 30, 2022.  If the acquisition of TTS Energy AS is not consummated on or prior to September 30, 2012, or if the related purchase agreement is terminated prior to such date, the Company will be required to redeem all of the 2015 Notes at a redemption price equal to 101% of their aggregate principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption.  The Company may redeem some of the 2015 Notes and the 2022 Notes from time to time or all of the 2015 Notes and the 2022 Notes at any time at the redemption prices set forth in the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, respectively.
 
The Company will be required to offer to repurchase the Notes if the Notes are rated below investment grade following certain events that constitute a change of control of the Company.  The Notes will be senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally with all of the Company's other existing and future
 
unsecured and unsubordinated debt.  The Notes are not guaranteed by the Company's subsidiaries and will effectively rank junior to any secured debt of the Company and all existing and future debt and other liabilities of the Company's subsidiaries.
 
Copies of the Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture are attached as Exhibit 4.1, Exhibit 4.2 and Exhibit 4.3, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description is a brief summary of the Indenture and does not purport to be a complete statement of the parties' rights and obligations thereunder.  The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the Indenture.
 
Item 2.03
                                          
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K with respect to the Indenture is incorporated into this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
Item 7.01
             
Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On May 14, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing the pricing of the Notes.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K under this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, is being "furnished" and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information and exhibit be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
May 14, 2012
 
 
May 14, 2012
 
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC MORGAN STANLEY & CO. LLC RBS SECURITIES INC.
               
as Representatives of the several Underwriters named in attached hereto,
Schedule A
 
c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc. 388 Greenwich Street New York, New York 10013
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the underwriters listed on hereto (collectively, the "") for whom you are serving as representatives (the "") (i) $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 1.60% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "") and (ii) $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.60% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "" and, together with the 2015 Notes, the ""), as set forth on hereto.
Company
Schedule A
Underwriters
Representatives
2015 Notes
2022 Notes
Notes
Schedule A
 
The Notes are to be issued pursuant to an indenture (the ""), to be dated on or about the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined), between the Company and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "").  The term "," as used herein, includes the Base Indenture and the First Supplemental Indenture and the Second Supplemental Indenture, each to be dated on or about the Closing Date establishing the forms and terms of the Notes.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
 
This Agreement, the Notes and the Indenture are hereinafter sometimes referred to collectively as the "."
Operative Documents
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree as follows:
 
1.
            
Sale and Purchase
.  Upon the basis of the representations and warranties and subject to the other terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company agrees to issue and sell to the respective Underwriters and each of the Underwriters, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company (i) the aggregate principal amount of 2015 Notes set forth opposite that Underwriter's name in hereto at a price equal to 99.607% of the principal amount thereof and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of 2022 Notes set forth opposite that Underwriter's name in hereto at a price equal to 99.094% of the principal amount thereof, in each case, plus accrued interest, if any, from May 17, 2012 to the Closing Date.
Schedule A
Schedule A
 
The Company understands that the Underwriters intend to make sales pursuant to a public offering of the Notes as soon after the date of this Agreement as in the judgment of the
 
 
Representatives is advisable, and initially to offer the Notes on the terms and conditions set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (as hereinafter defined).
 
2.
            
Payment and Delivery
.  Payment of the purchase price for the Notes shall be made to the Company by federal funds wire transfer, against delivery of the Notes to you through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ("") for the respective accounts of the Underwriters.  Such payment and delivery shall be made at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on May 17, 2012 (unless another time shall be agreed to by you and the Company or unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 8 hereof).  The time at which such payment and delivery are to be made is hereinafter sometimes called the ""  Certificates for the Notes shall each be delivered to you in global form.  As used herein "" shall mean a day on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading.
DTC
Closing Date.
business day
 
Deliveries of the documents described in Section 6 hereof with respect to the purchase of the Notes shall be made at the offices of Baker Botts L.L.P. at 910 Louisiana, Houston, Texas, at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on the date of the closing of the purchase of the Notes.
 
3.
            
Representations and Warranties of the Company
.  The Company represents and warrants to and agrees with each of the Underwriters that:
 
(a)
          
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
. The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") in accordance with the provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the ""), a registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-178708) under the Securities Act, and such registration statement has become effective under the Securities Act.  "" means, collectively, the various parts of such registration statement, each as amended as of the Effective Date for such part, including the Disclosure Package (as defined below), the Prospectus and the information, if any, deemed pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act to be part of such registration statement ("");  "" means, as of the Applicable Time (as defined below), the base prospectus comprising a part of the Registration Statement and the most recent preliminary prospectus supplement to the base prospectus, subject to completion, relating to the issuance of the Notes; and the term "" means the final prospectus (including the prospectus supplement) relating to the Notes filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act in accordance with Section 4(a) hereof. "" means any date as of which any part of the Registration Statement relating to the offering of the Notes became or is deemed to have become effective under the Securities Act in accordance with the Rules and Regulations. If the Company has filed an abbreviated registration statement pursuant to Rule 462(b) under the Securities Act, (a ""), then any reference herein to the term "Registration Statement" shall be deemed to include such Rule 462(b) Registration Statement. Any reference to the "" shall be deemed to refer to the latest Preliminary Prospectus relating to the offering of the Notes included in the Registration Statement or filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act on or prior to the date hereof. Any reference in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item
Commission
Securities Act
Rules and Regulations
Registration Statement
Rule 430 Information
Preliminary Prospectus
Prospectus
Effective Date
Rule 462(b) Registration Statement
most recent Preliminary Prospectus
 
12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act, as of each Effective Date of the Registration Statement or the date of such Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, as the case may be, and any reference to "amend," "amendment" or "supplement" with respect to the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include any documents filed after such date under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "") that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.
Exchange Act
 
As used in this Agreement, "" means 4:40 p.m. (New York City time) on the date of this Agreement.  At the Applicable Time, the Company had prepared the following information (collectively, the ""): a Preliminary Prospectus dated May 14, 2012, and each "free writing prospectus" (as defined pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act) listed on hereto as constituting part of the Disclosure Package.
Applicable Time
Disclosure Package
Schedule B
 
(b)
          
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
. The Company has been at all times since December 1, 2005 and continues to be a "well-known seasoned issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) eligible to use an "automatic shelf registration statement" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) for the registration of the Notes, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) at any such time or date. The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," and the Notes, since their registration on the Registration Statement, have been and remain eligible for registration by the Company on a Rule 405 "automatic shelf registration statement." The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to the use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. To the knowledge of the Company, the Registration Statement is not the subject of a pending proceeding or examination under Section 8(d) or 8(e) of the Securities Act, and the Company is not the subject of a pending proceeding under Section 8A of the Securities Act in connection with the offering of the Notes.
 
(c)
          
Automatic Effectiveness
. The Registration Statement became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e) of the Rules and Regulations ("") on December 22, 2011, and any post-effective amendment thereto also became effective upon filing under Rule 462(e). No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are contemplated by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
Rule 462(e)
 
(d)
          
Form of Documents
.  As of each Effective Date and on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all material respects, and any amendment to the Registration Statement filed after the date hereof will conform in all material respects when filed, to the requirements of the Securities Act and the Rules and Regulations. The most recent Preliminary Prospectus conformed, and the Prospectus will conform, in all material respects when filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, to the requirements of the Securities Act and the Rules and Regulations. The Registration Statement and the most recent Preliminary Prospectus conformed and the Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements applicable to them under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "").
Trust Indenture Act
 
(e)
          
Registration Statement
.  The Registration Statement did not and will not, as of each Effective Date, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; provided that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Registration Statement in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished in writing to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein, which information is specified in Section 10.
 
(f)
           
Prospectus
.  The Prospectus will not, as of its date and on the Closing Date, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Prospectus in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished in writing to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriter specifically for inclusion therein, which information is specified in Section 10.
 
(g)
          
Documents Incorporated by Reference
.  The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, at the time they were filed with the Commission complied, and any further documents incorporated by reference therein will comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act, and they did not, and will not, when filed with the Commission, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
(h)
          
Delivery of Documents
.  Copies of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, any amendments or supplements thereto and all documents incorporated by reference therein that were filed with the Commission on or prior to the date of this Agreement (including one fully executed copy of the Registration Statement and of each amendment thereto for the Underwriters) have been delivered to the Underwriters and their counsel.
 
(i)
           
Disclosure Package
.  The Disclosure Package did not, as of the Applicable Time, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that no representation or warranty is made as to information contained in or omitted from the Disclosure Package in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished in writing to the Company through the Representatives by or on behalf of any Underwriters specifically for inclusion therein, which information is specified in Section 10.
 
(j)
           
Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
.  The Company (including its agents and representatives, other than the Underwriters in their capacity as such) has not prepared, made, used, authorized, approved or referred to and will not prepare, make, use, authorize, approve or refer to any "written communication" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that constitutes an offer to sell or solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes (each such communication by the Company or its agents and representatives (other than a communication
 
referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below) an "") other than (i) any document not constituting a prospectus pursuant to Section 2(a)(10)(a) of the Securities Act or Rule 134 under the Securities Act, (ii) the Preliminary Prospectus, (iii) the Prospectus, (iv) each document listed on hereto as constituting a "free-writing prospectus" (as defined pursuant to Rule 405 under the Securities Act) that is part of the Disclosure Package and (v) any electronic road show or other written communications, in each case approved in writing in advance by the Representatives.  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conformed or will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Securities Act and the Rules and Regulations on the date of first use, and the Company has complied with any filing requirements applicable to such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus pursuant to the Rules and Regulations. The Company has not made any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus without the prior written consent of the Representatives, except as set forth on hereto. The Company has retained and will retain in accordance with the Rules and Regulations all Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses that were not required to be filed pursuant to the Rules and Regulations (it being understood that, as of the date hereof, the Company has not retained any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for the three year period required thereby). Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus does not and will not include any information that conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement or the Disclosure Package, including any document incorporated therein and any prospectus supplement deemed to be a part thereof that has not been superseded or modified. The foregoing sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished in writing to the Company by the Underwriters through the Representatives specifically for inclusion therein, which information consists solely of the information specified in Section 10.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Schedule B
Exhibit D
 
(k)
          
Principal Subsidiaries
. The subsidiaries of the Company (the ""), other than Cameron Limited, Cameron Solutions Inc., Cameron Rig Solutions, Inc., Cameron Canada Corporation, Cameron (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Cameron Italy SRL, Cameron do Brasil Ltda., Cameron France SAS, Cameron International Malaysia Systems Sdn Bhd, Cameron Romania SRL and Prestacao de Servicos, Limitada (each, a ""), as of December 31, 2011, did not, individually or in the aggregate, (i) account for more than 25% of the Company and its subsidiaries' customer sales, (ii) provide more than 25% of the Company and its subsidiaries' income from continuing operations before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of any change in accounting principles, or (iii) account for more than 25% of the total assets of the Company and its subsidiaries after the elimination of intercompany items.  Except as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each Principal Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable.  All shares of capital stock or other equity interests of the Principal Subsidiaries that are owned of record directly by the Company or indirectly by a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company are owned free and clear of any lien, security interest, pledge, charge, encumbrance, mortgage, equity, claim or adverse interest of any nature (each a ""); none of the outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of any such Principal Subsidiary was issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights or the charter or bylaws or other organizational documents of the Company or such Principal Subsidiary or any agreement to which the Company or such Principal Subsidiary is a party.  Except as set forth in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no outstanding
subsidiaries
Principal Subsidiary
Lien
 
subscriptions, rights, warrants or options to acquire, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock or other equity interest of any of the Principal Subsidiaries.
 
(l)
           
Formation and Qualification
. The Company and each Principal Subsidiary has been duly incorporated, organized or formed as a corporation, partnership or other entity, is validly existing in good standing under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation, organization or formation and has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as it is currently being conducted as described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted.  The Company and each Principal Subsidiary is duly registered and qualified and in good standing as a foreign corporation, partnership or other entity authorized to do business in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such registration or qualification, except where the failure to be so registered or qualified would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.  A "" means any material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or other), properties, results of operations or earnings of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
 
(m)
         
Power and Authority
. The Company has all requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Operative Documents and to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents to be consummated on its part and, without limitation, the Company has all requisite power and authority to issue, sell and deliver the Notes.
 
(n)
          
Authorization of Agreement
. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and when executed and delivered by the Company and by the Representatives will be a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
 
(o)
          
Authorization of Indenture
. The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed and delivered by the Company (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee), will constitute a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.  The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and, when it becomes effective and on the Closing Date, will comply in all material respects with the Trust Indenture Act and the rules thereunder.
 
(p)
          
Authorization of the Notes
. The Notes have been duly authorized for issuance and sale to the Underwriters by the Company and, when executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered by the Company against payment by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, the Notes will have been validly issued and delivered, will be valid and binding obligations of the Company, will be in the form contemplated by, and entitled to the benefits of, the Indenture and will be enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement
 
thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity.
 
(q)
          
Description of the Notes and the Indenture
. The Notes and the Indenture will conform in all material respects to each description thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and will be in substantially the respective forms filed or incorporated by reference, as the case may be, as exhibits to the Registration Statement.
 
(r)
           
No Default Under Agreements or Instruments
. None of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary is (i) in violation of its charter, bylaws or other constitutive and governing documents, (ii) in default (or, with notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any bond, debenture, note, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, or other evidence of indebtedness, or any lease, license, franchise agreement, authorization, permit, certificate or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of their assets or properties is subject (collectively, ""), or (iii) in violation of any law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court with jurisdiction over any of them or any of their assets or properties or other governmental or regulatory authority, agency or other body, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) herein, would not reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.  There exists no condition that, with notice, the passage of time or otherwise, would constitute a default by the Company or any Principal Subsidiary under any such document or instrument or result in the imposition of any penalty or the acceleration of any indebtedness, other than penalties, defaults or conditions that would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Agreements and Instruments
 
(s)
          
No Default or Violations
. The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, does not or will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to, (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, (ii) any Agreements and Instruments, (iii) any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective assets or properties or (iv) any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or their respective assets or properties, except as, in the case of clauses (ii) through (iv), would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (A) have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(t)
           
No Further Requirements
. No approval, authorization, consent or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any federal, state, local or foreign court or governmental agency, body or administrative agency, or of or with the rules of
 
the New York Stock Exchange, or approval of stockholders of the Company, is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby, except (i) such as have been or will be obtained or made on or prior to the Closing Date in connection with the issuance of the Notes, (ii) such as may be required under state securities or blue sky laws, or (iii) those for which the failure to obtain would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (A) have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents. No consents or waivers from any other person or entity are required for the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or any of the other Operative Documents or the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, other than such consents and waivers as have been obtained or will be obtained prior to the Closing Date, except for those consents or waivers, the failure of which to obtain would not, either individually or in the aggregate, (A) have a Material Adverse Effect or (B) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(u)
          
Litigation
. Except as described in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there is (i) no action, suit, claim, investigation or proceeding before or by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, board, authority, body or official, domestic or foreign, now pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened or contemplated to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which the business, assets or property of such entity is subject, (ii) no statute, rule, regulation or order that has been enacted, adopted or issued or, to the knowledge of the Company, that has been proposed by any governmental body or agency, domestic or foreign, (iii) no injunction, restraining order or order of any nature by a federal or state court or foreign court of competent jurisdiction to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that would (A) in the case of clause (i) above, if determined adversely to the Company or such subsidiary, either individually or in the aggregate, (1) have a Material Adverse Effect or (2) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents and (B) in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii) above, either individually or in the aggregate, (1) have a Material Adverse Effect or (2) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.  Every request of any securities authority or agency of any jurisdiction for additional information with respect to the Notes that has been received by the Company or its counsel prior to the date hereof has been, or will prior to the Closing Date be, complied with in all material respects.
 
(v)
          
Environmental Laws
. Except as described in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company and each Principal Subsidiary (i) is in compliance with, or not subject to costs or liabilities under, any and all local, state, provincial, federal and foreign laws, regulations, rules of common law, orders and decrees, as in effect as of the date hereof, and any present judgments and injunctions issued or promulgated thereunder relating to pollution or protection of public and employee health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants applicable to it or its business or operations or ownership or use of its property ("
Environmental
 
Laws
"), (ii) possesses all permits, licenses or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws, and is in compliance with all terms and conditions of any such permit, license or other approval, and (iii)  has not received notice of any actual or potential liability for the investigation or remediation of any disposal or release of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants, except in each case where liability or other consequences arising out of the matters referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) above would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  There has been no spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release of any kind onto any property now or previously owned or leased by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or into the environment surrounding such property of any solid wastes or hazardous substances due to or caused by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, except for any such spill, discharge, leak, emission, injection, escape, dumping or release which would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  There are no costs or liabilities associated with Environmental Laws (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up, closure of properties or compliance with Environmental Laws or any permit, license or approval, any related constraints on operating activities and any potential liabilities to third parties) which would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  For purposes of this provision, the terms "hazardous substances" and "solid wastes" shall have the meanings specified in any applicable Environmental Laws.
 
(w)
         
Licenses and Permits
.  The Company and its subsidiaries possess all licenses, certificates, permits and other authorizations issued by, and have made all declarations and filings with, the appropriate federal, state, local or foreign governmental or regulatory authorities that are necessary for the ownership or lease of their respective properties or the conduct of their respective businesses as described in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except where the failure to possess or make the same would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; and except as described in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received notice of any revocation or modification of any such license, certificate, permit or authorization or has any reason to believe that any such license, certificate, permit or authorization will not be renewed in the ordinary course.
 
(x)
           
Title to Property
. Except as otherwise set forth in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, or such as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries has good and marketable title to all property (real and personal) described in or incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus as being owned by it, free and clear of all Liens, except Liens for taxes not yet due and payable and Liens described in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  All the property described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or the documents incorporated by reference therein, as being held under lease by the Company or any of its subsidiaries is held by such entity under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases, except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(y)
          
Tax Filings
. The Company and each subsidiary has filed on a timely basis all necessary federal, state, local and foreign income, franchise and other tax returns (other than
 
returns being contested in good faith or as to which the failure to file would not have a Material Adverse Effect) and have paid all taxes shown thereon as due (other than those being contested in good faith or which are currently payable without penalty or interest), and the Company has no knowledge of any tax deficiency that has been or might be asserted against the Company or any subsidiary except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect; all material tax liabilities are adequately provided for within the financial statements of the Company in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles ("").
GAAP
 
(z)
           
Investment Company Act
. None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus will be, required to register as an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" incorporated in the United States within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(aa)
        
Internal Controls
. The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act and has been designed by the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or under their supervision, to provide reasonable assurance (i) regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and (ii) that interactive data in eXtensbile Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus fairly presents the information called for in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto. Since December 31, 2011, there have been no significant changes in internal controls or in other factors that materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company's internal controls over financial reporting, except as disclosed in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 or the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. Based on the evaluation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and other than as has been disclosed to the Company's auditors and the audit committee of the board of directors of the Company, the Company is not aware of (i) any significant deficiency in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting that is reasonably likely to adversely affect its ability to record, process, summarize and report financial data or any material weaknesses in internal controls; or (ii) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the internal controls of the Company.
 
(bb)
        
Disclosure Controls
. The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act; such disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries is made known to the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer by others within those entities; and such disclosure controls and procedures are and were as of December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2012, effective.
(cc)
        
Insurance
. Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, (i) the Company and each of its subsidiaries are insured by insurers of recognized financial responsibility against such losses and risks and in such amounts as are prudent and customary in the businesses in which they are engaged, (ii) all policies of insurance insuring the Company or any its subsidiaries or their respective businesses, assets, employees, officers and directors are in full force and effect and (iii) the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with the terms of such policies and instruments.  Except as described in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no claims by the Company or any of its subsidiaries under any such policy or instrument as to which any insurance company is denying liability or defending under a reservation of rights clause.  Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has been refused any insurance coverage sought or applied for, except in each case as disclosed in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has any reason to believe that it will not be able to renew its existing insurance coverage as and when such coverage expires or to obtain similar coverage from similar insurers as may be necessary to continue its business at a cost that would not have a Material Adverse Effect, except as disclosed in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
(dd)
        
No Liabilities or Material Adverse Change
. Since December 31, 2011, except as disclosed in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, (i) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has (A) incurred any liabilities or obligations, direct or contingent, that would have a Material Adverse Effect, or (B) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (ii) there has been no material adverse change or any development involving a prospective material adverse change in the business, properties, management, condition (financial or otherwise), earnings or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, and (iii) there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock except in a manner consistent with past practices.
 
(ee)
        
No Violation
. None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (or any agent thereof acting on their behalf other than the Underwriters, as to whom the Company makes no representation) has taken, and none of them will take (other than the Underwriters, as to whom the Company makes no representation), any action that would cause this Agreement or the issuance or sale of the Notes to violate Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
 
(ff)
          
Independent Accountants
. Ernst & Young LLP, who has certified or shall certify the audited financial statements included or to be included as part of or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus is an independent accountant within the meaning of the Securities Act.  The historical financial statements and the notes and schedules thereto included in or incorporated by reference in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position and results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries at the respective dates and for the respective periods indicated.  Such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods presented (except as disclosed in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, including the documents incorporated by reference
therein).  The other financial and statistical information and data included in or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus are accurately presented in all material respects and prepared on a basis consistent with the financial statements and the books and records of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
(gg)
        
Intellectual Property
. Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries own or possess the right to use all patents, trademarks (both registered and unregistered), trademark registrations, service marks, service mark registrations, trade names, copyrights, licenses, inventions, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus as being owned by them or any of them or necessary for the conduct of their respective businesses, and the Company is not aware of any claims to the contrary or any challenge by any other entity to the rights of the Company and its subsidiaries with respect to any of the foregoing.
 
(hh)
        
ERISA
. Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Company and its subsidiaries has fulfilled its obligations, if any, under the minimum funding standards of Section 302 of the United States Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("") and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder with respect to each "plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA and such regulations and published interpretations) in which employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are eligible to participate and each such plan is in compliance with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and such regulations and published interpretations.  Except as would not have a Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries have not incurred any unpaid liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (other than for the payment of premiums in the ordinary course) or to any such plan under Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA
 
(ii)
          
No Labor Disputes
. Except as set forth in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, (i) no labor problem or dispute with any of the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is threatened or imminent, and (ii) to the knowledge of the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, there is no existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of any of its or its subsidiaries' principal suppliers, contractors or customers, that, in the case of clause (i) or (ii), would have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(jj)
          
Sarbanes-Oxley Act
. The principal executive officer and principal financial officer of the Company have made all certifications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or any related rules and regulations promulgated by the Commission, and the statements contained in any such certification are true and correct in all material respects.
 
(kk)
        
Statistical Information
. The statistical and market-related data and forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) included in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus are based on or derived from sources that the Company believes to be reliable and accurate in all material respects and represent its good faith estimates that are made on the basis of data derived from such sources.
(ll)
          
OFAC
. The Company is subject to requirements of the sanctions program implemented and administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control (""), including without limitation, 31 CFR Parts 500-600 ("").  The Company consults from time to time with knowledgeable counsel regarding its compliance with the OFAC Sanctions Program.  The Company has undertaken commercially reasonable efforts to comply with the OFAC Sanctions Program.  None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC, and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering to lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any such person in violation of the OFAC Sanctions Program.
OFAC
OFAC Sanctions Programs
 
(mm)
      
No Unlawful Payments
. 
Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or other person associated with or acting on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has (i) used any corporate funds for any unlawful contribution, gift, entertainment or other unlawful expense relating to political activity; (ii) made any direct or indirect unlawful payment to any foreign or domestic government official or employee from corporate funds; (iii) violated or is in violation of any provision of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977; or (iv) made any bribe, rebate, payoff, influence payment, kickback or other unlawful payment; except, in each case, as would not reasonably be expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(nn)
        
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws
.
  The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in material compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Money Laundering Laws
 
(oo)
        
No Distribution of Other Offering Materials
.  The Company has not distributed or, prior to the completion of the distribution of the Notes, will not distribute, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to which the Representatives have consented in accordance with Section 3(j) and the Issuer Free Writing Prospectus set forth on hereto and any other materials, if any, permitted by the Securities Act, including Rule 134 of the Rules and Regulations.
Exhibit D
 
(pp)
        
No Omitted Descriptions; Legal Descriptions
. There are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened or contemplated, against the Company or its Principal Subsidiaries, or to which the Company or its Principal Subsidiaries is a party, or to which any of their respective properties or assets is
subject, that are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus but are not described as required, and there are no agreements, contracts, indentures, leases or other instruments that are required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to be filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement that are not described or filed as required by the Securities Act or the Rules and Regulations or the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder.
 
(qq)
        
No Stabilizing Transactions
.  The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
 
(rr)
          
Rank
.  The Notes constitute unsecured and unsubordinated obligations of the Company and rank with all other unsecured and unsubordinated debt obligations of the Company.
pari passu
 
(ss)
        
XBRL Information
.
The interactive data in eXtensbile Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus fairly presents the information called for in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
 
In addition, any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries and delivered to the Underwriters or counsel for the Underwriters in connection with the offer and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company or Principal Subsidiary, as the case may be, as to matters covered thereby, to the Underwriters.
 
4.
            
Certain Covenants of the Company
.  The Company hereby agrees:
 
(a)
          
Preparation of Prospectus and Registration Statement
.  (i) To prepare the Prospectus in a form approved by the Underwriters and to file such Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act and within the time period required by Rule 430B under the Securities Act; (ii) to make no further amendment or any supplement to the Registration Statement or to the Prospectus except as permitted herein; (iii) to advise the Underwriters, promptly after it receives notice thereof, of the time when any amendment to the Registration Statement has been filed or becomes effective or any supplement to the Prospectus or any amended Prospectus has been filed and to furnish the Underwriters with copies thereof; (iv) to advise the Underwriters promptly after it receives notice thereof of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, of the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for any such purpose or of any request by the Commission for the amending or supplementing of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or for additional information; and (v) in the event of the issuance of any stop order or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or suspending any such qualification, to use promptly its best efforts to obtain its withdrawal.
(b)
          
Final Term Sheet and Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
.  (i) To prepare a final term sheet, containing solely a description of final terms of the Notes and the offering thereof, in the form approved by the Representatives and attached as hereto, and to file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act within the time required by such Rule; and (ii) not to make any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus without the prior written consent of the Representatives
Exhibit D
 
(c)
          
Copies of Registration Statements
.  To furnish promptly to the Underwriters and to counsel for the Underwriters, upon request, a signed copy or conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed with the Commission, and each amendment thereto filed with the Commission, including all consents and exhibits filed therewith.
 
(d)
          
Exchange Act Reports
.  To file promptly all reports and any definitive proxy or information statements required to be filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to Section 13(a), 13(c), 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act subsequent to the date of the Prospectus and for so long as the delivery of a prospectus is required in connection with the offering or sale of the Notes.
 
(e)
          
Copies of Documents to the Underwriters
.  To deliver promptly to the Underwriters such number of the following documents as the Underwriters shall reasonably request: (i) each Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus and any amended or supplemented Prospectus, (ii) each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and (iii) any document incorporated by reference in any Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus; and, if the delivery of a Prospectus is required at any time after the date hereof in connection with the offering or sale of the Notes or any other securities relating thereto and if at such time any events shall have occurred as a result of which the Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made when such Prospectus is delivered, not misleading, or, if for any other reason it shall be necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus or to file under the Exchange Act any document incorporated by reference therein in order to comply with the Securities Act or the Exchange Act or with a request from the Commission, to notify the Underwriters immediately thereof and to promptly prepare and, subject to Section 4(f) hereof, file with the Commission an amended Prospectus or supplement to the Prospectus that will correct such statement or omission or effect such compliance. In any such case, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such filings and effectiveness.
 
(f)
           
Filing of Amendment or Supplement
.  To file promptly with the Commission any amendment to the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or any supplement to the Prospectus that may, in the judgment of the Company or the Underwriters, be required by the Securities Act or the Exchange Act or requested by the Commission.  Prior to filing with the Commission any amendment to the Registration Statement or supplement to the Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424 of the Rules and Regulations, or any Prospectus, to furnish a copy thereof to the Underwriters and counsel for the Underwriters and not to file any such document to which the Underwriters shall reasonably object after having been given reasonable notice of the proposed filing thereof unless the Company is required by law to make such filing.
(g)
          
Reports to Security Holders
.  As soon as practicable after the Closing Date, to make generally available to the Company's security holders (as provided in Rule 158(b) under the Securities Act) an earnings statement of the Company (which will satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act) covering a period of twelve months beginning after the effective date of the Registration Statement (as defined in Rule 158(c) under the Securities Act) as soon as is reasonably practicable after the termination of such twelve month period but not later than fifteen months after the end of the Company's current fiscal quarter.
 
(h)
          
Blue Sky Laws
.  Promptly to take from time to time such actions as the Underwriters may reasonably request to qualify the Notes for offering and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may designate and to continue such qualifications in effect for so long as required for the resale of the Notes; and to arrange for the determination of the eligibility for investment of the Notes under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Underwriters may reasonably request; provided that the Company shall not be obligated to qualify as a foreign corporation in any jurisdiction in which it is not so qualified or to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction.
 
(i)
           
Application of Proceeds
.  To apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes as set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
(j)
           
Investment Company
.  To take such steps as shall be necessary to ensure that the Company shall not become an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act.
 
(k)
          
Retention of Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
.  To retain in accordance with the Rules and Regulations all Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses not required to be filed pursuant to the Rules and Regulations; and if at any time after the date hereof and prior to the Closing Date, any events shall have occurred as a result of which any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as then amended or supplemented, would conflict with the information in the Registration Statement, the most recent Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or, when considered together with the most recent Preliminary Prospectus, would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or, if for any other reason it shall be necessary to amend or supplement any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, to notify the Representatives and, upon their reasonable request or as required by the Rules and Regulations, to file such document and to prepare and furnish without charge to each Underwriter as many copies as the Representatives may from time to time reasonably request of an amended or supplemented Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that will correct such conflict, statement or omission or effect such compliance.
 
(l)
           
Expenses
.  Whether or not the transactions contemplated in this Agreement are consummated or this Agreement is terminated, the Company will pay or cause to be paid all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including, without limitation, (i) the fees, disbursements and expenses of the Company's counsel and the Company's accountants in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes and all other fees and expenses in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and all amendments and supplements thereto, including
all printing costs associated therewith, and the furnishing of copies thereof to the Underwriters and to dealers (including costs of mailing and shipment), (ii) all costs related to the preparation, issuance, execution, authentication and delivery of the Notes, (iii) all costs related to the transfer and delivery of the Notes to the Underwriters, including any transfer or other taxes payable thereon, (iv)  all expenses in connection with the qualification of the Notes for offering and sale under state laws (including the reasonable fees, expenses and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters relating to the preparation, printing or reproduction, and delivery of any preliminary or supplemental blue sky or legal investment memorandum and such registration and qualification), (v) any fees payable to investment rating agencies with respect to the rating of the Notes, (vi) the costs and charges of the Trustee and any transfer agent, registrar or depositary, (vii) the fees and expenses, if any, incurred in connection with the admission of the Notes for trading on any appropriate market system, (viii) the costs and expenses of the Company relating to investor presentations on any "road show" undertaken in connection with the marketing of the offering of the Notes, including, without limitation, expenses associated with the production of road show slides and graphics, fees and expenses of any consultants engaged in connection with the road show presentations with the prior approval of the Company, travel and lodging expenses of the representatives and officers of the Company and any such consultants, and the cost of any aircraft chartered in connection with the road show, and (ix) all other costs and expenses incident to the performance of the Company's obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section 4(l).
 
(m)
         
Disposition of Debt Securities
.  The Company will not, without the prior written consent of Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of (or enter into any transaction that is designed to, or might reasonably be expected to, result in the disposition (whether by actual disposition or effective economic disposition due to cash settlement or otherwise) by the Company or any affiliate of the Company or any person in privity with the Company or any affiliate of the Company), directly or indirectly, including the filing (or participation in the filing) of a registration statement with the Commission in respect of, or establish or increase a put equivalent position or liquidate or decrease a call equivalent position within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, any debt securities (excluding commercial paper or bank borrowings) issued or guaranteed by the Company (other than the Notes) or publicly announce an intention to effect any such transaction, for a period of 90 days from the date hereof.
 
(n)
          
Compliance
.  The Company will comply in all material respects with all applicable securities and other laws, rules and regulations, including without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the officers and directors of the Company, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
 
(o)
          
Stabilization
.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Notes.
 
5.
            
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
.  If the Notes are not delivered for any reason other than the termination of this Agreement pursuant to clause (iii), (iv) or (v) of
Section 7(b) or Section 8(d) hereof or the default by one or more of the Underwriters in its or their respective obligations hereunder, the Company shall, in addition to paying the amounts described in Section 4(l) hereof, reimburse the Underwriters for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
 
6.
            
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
.  The several obligations of the Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company on the date hereof, the Applicable Time and on the Closing Date.  Additionally, the several obligations of the Underwriters are subject to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
 
(a)
          
The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date, an opinion of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P., counsel for the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, addressed to the Underwriters and dated the date of the Closing Date.
 
(b)
          
The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date, an opinion of William C. Lemmer, Senior Vice President and General Counsel to the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit B hereto, addressed to the Underwriters and dated the Closing Date.
 
(c)
          
The Representatives shall have received on the date of this Agreement and on the Closing Date from Ernst & Young LLP customary comfort letters dated, respectively, as of the date of this Agreement and the Closing Date and addressed to the Underwriters in the forms and substance heretofore approved by the Representatives and Baker Botts L.L.P., counsel to the Underwriters.
 
(d)
          
The Underwriters shall have received on the Closing Date, the opinion of Baker Botts L.L.P., counsel for the Underwriters, dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to you.
 
(e)
          
No amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or any document that upon filing with the Commission would be incorporated by reference in the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, shall at any time have been made or filed to which the Underwriters have reasonably objected in writing.
 
(f)
           
The Prospectus shall have been timely filed with the Commission in accordance with Section 4(a) of this Agreement; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or preventing or suspending the use of the Prospectuses or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceeding for that purpose shall have been initiated or threatened by the Commission; any request of the Commission for inclusion of additional information in the Registration Statement or the Prospectus or otherwise shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Underwriters; and the Commission shall not have notified the Company of any objection to the use of the form of the Registration Statement.
 
(g)
          
The Underwriters shall not have discovered and disclosed to the Company on or prior to the Closing Date that the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Disclosure Package, or any amendment or supplement thereto, contains an untrue statement of a fact which, in the opinion of the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters, is material or omits to state
any fact which, in the opinion of the Representatives or such counsel, is material and is required to be stated therein or in the documents incorporated by reference therein or is necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
 
(h)
          
Between the time of execution of this Agreement and the Closing Date, there shall not have occurred or become known any material and unfavorable change, financial or otherwise, in the business, properties, management, conditions or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, that in the judgment of the Underwriters makes it impracticable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes on the terms and in the manner contemplated by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
(i)
           
The Company will, on the Closing Date, deliver to you a certificate of its Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer in the form attached as hereto.
Exhibit C
 
(j)
           
You shall have received copies, duly executed by the Company and the other parties thereto, of the Indenture and the Notes.
 
(k)
          
The Company shall have furnished to you such other documents and certificates as to the accuracy and completeness of any statement in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus as of the Closing Date as you may reasonably request.
 
(l)
           
Between the Applicable Time and the Closing Date there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of (i) any intended or potential downgrading or (ii) any review or possible change that does not indicate an improvement, in the rating accorded any securities of or guaranteed by the Company by Moody's Investor Services, Inc. or Standard & Poor's Rating Services.
 
(m)
         
All agreements set forth in the representation letter from the Company to DTC relating to the approval of the Notes by DTC for "book entry" transfer shall have been complied with.
 
7.
            
Effective Date of Agreement; Termination
.  (a) This Agreement shall become effective when the parties hereto have executed and delivered this Agreement.
 
(b)
          
The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder shall be subject to termination in the absolute discretion of the Representatives with notice to the Company at any time prior to the Closing Date, if prior to such time (i) the Company shall have failed, refused or been unable to perform in any material respect any agreement on its part to be performed under this Agreement when and as required, (ii) any other condition to the obligations of the Underwriters under this Agreement to be fulfilled by the Company pursuant to Section 6 is not fulfilled when and as required in any material respect, (iii) trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market shall have been suspended or limitations or minimum prices shall have been established on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq National Market, (iv) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared either by the United States or New York State authorities, or if there has been a material disruption in securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (v) the United States shall have declared war in accordance with its constitutional processes or there shall have occurred any material outbreak or escalation of
 
hostilities or terrorism or other national or international calamity or crisis of such magnitude in its effect on the financial markets of the United States as, in the judgment of the Representatives to make it impracticable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes on the terms and in the manner contemplated in the Disclosure Package, the Prospectus and this Agreement.
 
(c)
                                 
If the Representatives elect to terminate this Agreement as provided in this Section 7, the Company shall be notified as provided for herein.
 
(d)
                                
If the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes, as contemplated by this Agreement, is not carried out by the Underwriters for any reason permitted under this Agreement or if such sale is not carried out because the Company shall be unable to comply and does not comply with any of the terms of this Agreement, the Company shall not be under any obligation or liability under this Agreement (except to the extent provided in Sections 4(l), 5 and 9 hereof), and the Underwriters shall be under no obligation or liability to the Company under this Agreement (except to the extent provided in Section 9 hereof) or to one another hereunder.
 
8.
                                      
Increase in Underwriters' Commitments
.  (a) Subject to Sections 6 and 7 hereof, if any Underwriter shall default in its obligation to take up and pay for the Notes to be purchased by it hereunder on the Closing Date (otherwise than for a failure of a condition set forth in Section 6 hereof or a reason sufficient to justify the termination of this Agreement under the provisions of Section 7 hereof) (the "") and if the aggregate principal amount of the Defaulted Notes which all Underwriters so defaulting shall have agreed but failed to take up and pay for at such time does not exceed 10% of the total aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased at such time, the non-defaulting Underwriters (including the new Underwriters, if any, substituted in the manner set forth below) shall take up and pay for (in addition to the aggregate principal amount of Notes they are obligated to purchase at such time pursuant to Section 1 hereof) the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Notes agreed to be purchased by all such defaulting Underwriters at such time, as hereinafter provided.  Such Defaulted Notes shall be taken up and paid for by such non-defaulting Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, in such amount or amounts as you may designate with the consent of each Underwriter so designated or, in the event no such designation is made, such Notes shall be taken up and paid for by all non-defaulting Underwriters pro rata in proportion to the aggregate principal amount of Notes set forth opposite the names of such non-defaulting Underwriters in .
Defaulted Notes
Schedule A
 
(b)
                                
If a new Underwriter or Underwriters are substituted by the Underwriters or by the Company for a defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters in accordance with the foregoing provision, the Company or you shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date for a period not exceeding five business days in order that any necessary changes in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and other documents may be effected.
 
(c)
                                 
The term "" as used in this Agreement shall refer to and include any Underwriter substituted under this Section 8 with like effect as if such substituted Underwriter had originally been named in hereto.
new Underwriter
Schedule A
 
(d)
                                
If the aggregate principal amount of Defaulted Notes which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed to purchase on the Closing Date, exceeds 10% of the total aggregate principal amount of Notes which all Underwriters agreed to purchase hereunder at
such time, and if neither the non-defaulting Underwriters nor the Company shall make arrangements within the five business day period stated above for the purchase of all the Notes which the defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed to purchase hereunder at such time, this Agreement, shall terminate without further act or deed and without any liability with respect thereto on the part of the Company to any Underwriter and without any liability with respect thereto on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter to the Company.  Nothing in this section, and no action taken hereunder, shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
 
9.
                                      
Indemnity and Contribution
.
 
(a)
                                 
The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, directors and officers, and any person who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and the successors and assigns of all the foregoing persons (each, an "") from and against any loss, damage, expense, liability or claim (including the reasonable cost of investigation) which, jointly or severally, any such Underwriter Indemnified Party may incur under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the common law or otherwise, insofar as such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto, or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein not misleading, except insofar as any such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus relying upon and in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of any Underwriter to the Company expressly for use with reference to such Underwriter therein or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact in connection with such information required to be stated in the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or necessary to make such statements not misleading.
Underwriter Indemnified Party
 
(b)
                                
Each Underwriter severally and not jointly agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Company, its directors and officers and any person who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and the successors and assigns of all the foregoing persons (each, a "") from and against any loss, damage, expense, liability or claim (including the reasonable cost of investigation) which, jointly or severally, the Company or any such person may incur under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the common law or otherwise, insofar as such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in and in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of such Underwriter through the Representatives to the Company expressly for use with reference to such Underwriter therein or arises out of or is based upon any omission or alleged omission to state a material fact in connection with such information required to be stated in the Registration Statement, any Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus,
Company Indemnified Party
the Disclosure Package, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or necessary to make such statements not misleading.
 
(c)
                                 
If any action, suit or proceeding (each, a "") is brought against any person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either subsection (a) or (b) of this Section 9, such person (the "") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "") in writing of the institution of such Proceeding and such Indemnifying Party shall assume the defense of such Proceeding, including the employment of counsel reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Party and payment of all fees and expenses; provided, however, that the omission to so notify such Indemnifying Party shall not relieve such Indemnifying Party from any liability which it may have to such Indemnified Party or otherwise, except to the extent that the Indemnifying Party has been prejudiced in any material respect by such omission to so notify.  Such Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such case, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party unless the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by such Indemnifying Party in connection with the defense of such Proceeding or such Indemnifying Party shall not have employed counsel to have charge of the defense of such Proceeding within 30 days of the receipt of notice thereof or such Indemnified Party shall have reasonably concluded upon written advice of counsel that there may be defenses available to it that are different from, additional to, or in conflict with those available to such Indemnifying Party (in which case such Indemnifying Party shall not have the right to direct that portion of the defense of such Proceeding on behalf of such Indemnified Party, but such Indemnifying Party may employ counsel and participate in the defense thereof but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnifying Party), in any of which events such reasonable fees and expenses shall be borne by such Indemnifying Party and paid as incurred (it being understood, however, that such Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel in any one Proceeding or series of related Proceedings together with reasonably necessary local counsel representing the Indemnified Parties who are parties to such Proceeding). An Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any settlement of any such Proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with the written consent of such Indemnifying Party, such Indemnifying Party agrees to indemnify and hold harmless an Indemnified Party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an Indemnified Party shall have requested an Indemnifying Party to reimburse such Indemnified Party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the second sentence of this paragraph, then such Indemnifying Party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any Proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 business days after receipt by such Indemnifying Party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such Indemnifying Party shall not have reimbursed such Indemnified Party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement and (iii) such Indemnified Party shall have given such Indemnifying Party at least 30 days' prior notice of its intention to settle. An Indemnifying Party shall not, without the prior written consent of any Indemnified Party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened Proceeding in respect of which such Indemnified Party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such Indemnified Party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such Indemnified Party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such Proceeding and does not include an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of such Indemnified Party.
Proceeding
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
(d)
                                
If the indemnification provided for in this Section 9 is held to be unavailable to an Indemnified Party under subsections (a) and (b) of this Section 9 in respect of any losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims referred to therein, then each applicable Indemnifying Party, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnified Party, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Notes or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, damages, expenses, liabilities or claims, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportion as the total proceeds from the offering (net of the Underwriter's discounts and commissions but before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission relates to information supplied by the Company or by the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.  The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in this subsection shall be deemed to include any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating, preparing to defend or defending any Proceeding.
 
(e)
                                 
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in subsection (d) above.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes underwritten by such Underwriter and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damage which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several in proportion to the respective underwriting commitments and not joint. The remedies provided for in this Section 9 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Party at law or in equity.
 
(f)
                                   
The indemnity and contribution agreements contained in this Section 9 and the covenants, warranties and representations of the Company contained in this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, its partners, directors and officers or any person (including each partner, officer or director of such person) who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, or by or on behalf of the Company, its
directors and officers or any person who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, and shall survive the issuance and delivery of the Notes.  In addition, the agreements contained in Sections 4(l), 4(m), 5, 9, 10, and 13 shall survive the termination of this Agreement, including pursuant to Section 7.
 
10.
                                
Underwriters' Information
.  The statements set forth in the last paragraph of the cover page of the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus regarding delivery of the Notes and under the caption "Underwriting" in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and in the Prospectus, (i) the sentences related to concessions and reallowances and (ii) the paragraph related to stabilization, syndicate covering transactions and penalty bids constitute the only information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Underwriters expressly for use in the most recent Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus as such information is referred to in Sections 3 and 9 herein.
 
11.
                                
Company Information
.  Each Underwriter severally and not jointly agrees that such Underwriter, without the prior written consent of the Company, has not used or referred to publicly and shall not use or refer to publicly any "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 under the Securities Act, other than a free writing prospectus containing the information contained in the final term sheet prepared and filed pursuant to Section 4(b) of this Agreement; provided that the prior written consent of the parties hereto shall be deemed to have been given in respect of hereto. Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Representatives or the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "" The Company agrees that (x) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and (y) it has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.
Exhibit D
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus.
 
12.
                                
Notices
.  Except as otherwise herein provided, all statements, requests, notices and agreements shall be in writing or by facsimile and, if to the Underwriters, shall be sufficient in all respects if delivered or sent to c/o Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 388 Greenwich Street, New York NY 10013, Attention:  General Counsel (fax: (212) 816-7912) and, if to the Company, shall be sufficient in all respects if delivered or sent to the Company at the offices of the Company at 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700, Houston, Texas 77027, Attention:  General Counsel (telephone: (713) 513-3300, fax: (713) 513-3456.
 
13.
                                
Governing Law and Construction
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAWS PRINCIPLES. THE SECTION HEADINGS IN THIS AGREEMENT HAVE BEEN INSERTED AS A MATTER OF CONVENIENCE OF REFERENCE AND ARE NOT A PART OF THIS AGREEMENT.
 
14.
                                
Submission to Jurisdiction
.  Except as set forth below, no proceeding may be commenced, prosecuted or continued in any court other than the courts of the State of New York located in the City and County of New York or in the United States District Court for the
Southern District of New York, which courts shall have jurisdiction over the adjudication of such matters, and the Company hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts and personal service with respect thereto.  The Company hereby consents to personal jurisdiction, service and venue in any court in which any proceeding arising out of or in any way relating to this Agreement is brought by any third party against any of the Underwriters.  The Company hereby waives all right to trial by jury in any proceeding (whether based upon contract, tort or otherwise) in any way arising out of or relating to this Agreement.  The Company agrees that a final judgment in any such proceeding brought in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the Company and may be enforced in any other courts in the jurisdiction of which the Company is or may be subject, by suit upon such judgment.  The Company hereby appoints, without power of revocation, CT Corporation System, 111 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York 10011 as its agent to accept and acknowledge on its behalf service of any and all process which may be served in any proceeding in any way relating to or arising out of this Agreement.
 
15.
                                
Parties at Interest
.  The Agreement herein set forth has been and is made solely for the benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and, to the extent provided in Section 9 hereof, the controlling persons, directors and officers referred to in such section, and their respective successors, assigns, executors and administrators.  No other person, partnership, heirs, personal representatives, association or corporation (including a purchaser, as such purchaser, from any of the Underwriters) shall acquire or have any right under or by virtue of this Agreement.
 
16.
                                
No Fiduciary Relationship
.  The Company hereby acknowledges that the Underwriters are acting solely as Underwriters in connection with the offering of the Notes.  The Company further acknowledges that the Underwriters are acting pursuant to a contractual relationship created solely by this Agreement entered into on an arm's length basis, and in no event do the parties intend that the Underwriters act or be responsible as a fiduciary to the Company, its management, stockholders or creditors or any other person in connection with any activity that the Underwriters may undertake or have undertaken in furtherance of the purchase and sale of the Company's securities, either before or after the date hereof.  The Underwriters hereby expressly disclaim any fiduciary or similar obligations to the Company, either in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any matters leading up to such transactions, and the Company hereby confirms its understanding and agreement to that effect.  The Company and the Underwriters agree that they are each responsible for making their own independent judgments with respect to any such transactions and that any opinions or views expressed by the Underwriters to the Company regarding such transactions, including, but not limited to, any opinions or views with respect to the price or market for the Company's securities, do not constitute advice or recommendations to the Company.  The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of any fiduciary or similar duty to the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any matters leading up to such transactions.
 
17.
                                
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be signed by the parties in one or more counterparts which together shall constitute one and the same agreement among the parties.  Delivery of an executed counterpart by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart thereof.
18.
                                
Successors and Assigns
.  This Agreement shall be binding upon the Underwriters and the Company and their successors and assigns and any successor or assign of any substantial portion of the Company's and any of the Underwriters' respective businesses and/or assets.
 
If the foregoing correctly sets forth the understanding between the Company and the Underwriters, please so indicate in the space provided below for the purpose, whereupon this letter and your acceptance shall constitute a binding agreement between the Company and the Underwriters, severally.
 
Accepted and agreed to as of the date first above written, on behalf of itself and the other several Underwriters named in hereto:
Schedule A
 
 
 
The Final Term Sheet attached to the Agreement as .
Exhibit D
 
 
Exhibit A
 
The opinion of Vinson & Elkins L.L.P., counsel for the Company (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Underwriting Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Underwriting Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i)            The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
(ii)           The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "Trust Indenture Act").  The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee, constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
(iii)          The Notes have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and, when duly authenticated in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters in accordance with the terms of the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
(iv)          The Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (except as to the financial statements and schedules and other financial and accounting data contained or incorporated by reference therein, as to which such counsel need express no belief) appear on their face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(v)           The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, does not and will not (a) violate the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of the Company, (b) violate or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to (1) any Agreements and Instruments identified on Annex A hereto, (2) to the knowledge of such counsel, any
law, statute, rule or regulation of the United States or the states of Texas or New York applicable to the Company or any subsidiary or its respective assets or properties typical, in such counsel's experience, for transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents or (3) to the knowledge of such counsel, any judgment, order or decree of any United States, Texas or New York governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any subsidiary or their respective assets or properties that, except as, in the case of clauses (1) and (3), would not, either individually or in the aggregate, interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(vi)          The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act; and any required filing of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act and of the final term sheet pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act has been made in the manner and within the time periods required by such rule. To our knowledge, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission.
 
(vii)         No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any court or governmental agency of the United States or the states of New York or Texas is required to be obtained or made by the Company for the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Operative Documents, except (a) such as have been obtained or made on or prior to the date hereof, (b) such as may be required under state securities and blue sky laws, or (c) those for which the failure to obtain or make would not, either individually or in the aggregate (1) have a Material Adverse Effect or (2) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(viii)        The Company is not, and after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Notes and the application of the net proceeds thereof as described in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(ix)           Each document filed under the Exchange Act and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data included therein, as to which such counsel need not comment) when they were filed with the Commission, appear on their face to have complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(x)            The statements in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Certain Other Indebtedness," "Description of the Notes," "Description of Debt Securities," and "Certain United States Federal Income and Estate Tax Considerations," insofar as such statements purport to describe or summarize the
legal matters and documents therein, accurately summarize in all material respects such legal matters and documents.
 
(xi)           In addition, such counsel shall state that they have reviewed the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and have participated in discussions with your representatives, representatives of the Company and its counsel and independent registered public accounting firm concerning the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  Such counsel shall state that, although they are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any of the statements in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (except to the extent stated in paragraph (x) above), no facts have come to their attention that cause such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of its most recent Effective Date, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) the Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the Applicable Time, included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (iii) the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial and accounting data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the date of the Prospectus, or as of the Closing Date, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
1.             Credit Agreement, dated as of April 14, 2008, among the Company and certain of its subsidiaries and the banks named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as agent, as amended.
 
2.             Credit Agreement, dated October 15, 2010, among the Company and certain of its subsidiaries and the banks named therein and Citibank, N.A., as amended.
 
3.             Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2008, between Cameron International Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee.
 
4.             First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2008, between Cameron International Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, with respect to Cameron International Corporation's 6.375% Senior Notes due 2018.
 
5.             Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 26, 2008, between Cameron International Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, with respect to Cameron International Corporation's 7.00% Senior Notes due 2038.
 
6.             Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 2, 2011, between Cameron International Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, with respect to Cameron International Corporation's 4.50% Senior Notes due 2021.
 
7.             Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 2, 2011, between Cameron International Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, with respect to Cameron International Corporation's 5.95% Senior Notes due 2041.
 
8.             Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 2, 2011, between Cameron International Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee, with respect to Cameron International Corporation's Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014.
Exhibit B
 
The opinion of William C. Lemmer, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Underwriting Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Underwriting Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i)            The Company (a) has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of Delaware; (b) has the corporate power and authority to own its property and to conduct its business as described in each of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted; and (c) is duly qualified or licensed to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(ii)           Each of Cameron Limited, Cameron Solutions Inc., Cameron Rig Solutions, Inc., Cameron Canada Corporation, Cameron (Singapore) Pte. Ltd., Cameron Italy SRL, Cameron do Brasil Ltda., Cameron France SAS, Cameron International Malaysia Systems Sdn Bhd, Cameron Romania SRL and Prestacao de Servicos, Limitada (each, a "Principal Subsidiary") (a) is validly existing as a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership or other form of entity, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of its respective jurisdiction of incorporation or formation; (b) has the requisite power and authority to own its property and to conduct it business as described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, and to own, lease, license and operate its respective properties in accordance with its business as currently conducted; and (c) is duly qualified to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its ownership or leasing of property requires such qualification, except to the extent that the failure to be so qualified or be in good standing would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
 
(iii)          The Company has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Operative Documents and to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents to be consummated on its part.
 
(iv)          The statements in "Part II, Item 1  Legal Proceedings" of the Company's most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q incorporated by reference in the Prospectus, insofar as such statements constitute summaries of the legal proceedings referred to therein, fairly present the information called for with respect to such legal proceedings and fairly summarize the matters referred to therein.
(v)           The execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Operative Documents, including the consummation of the offer and sale of the Notes, does not or will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of, or default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or an acceleration of any indebtedness of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary pursuant to (a) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of the Company or any Principal Subsidiary, (b) to the knowledge of such counsel, any Agreements and Instruments filed as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 or the Current Reports on Form 8-K since January 1, 2012, together with any amendments to such Agreements or Instruments, (c) to the knowledge of such counsel, any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or its respective assets or properties typical, in such counsel's experience, for transactions contemplated by the Operative Documents or (d) to the knowledge of such counsel, any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any Principal Subsidiary or their respective assets or properties, except as, in the case of clauses (b) and (d), would not (1) reasonably be expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect or (2) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(vi)          Neither the Company nor any of the Principal Subsidiaries is in breach or violation of, or in default under (nor has any event occurred which with notice, lapse of time, or both would result in any breach or violation of, constitute a default under or give the holder of any indebtedness (or person acting on such holder's behalf), the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or part of such indebtedness under) its respective charter or by-laws or any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, bank loan or credit agreement or other evidence of indebtedness, or any license, lease, contract or other agreement or instrument to which the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries is a party or by which any of them or their respective properties may be bound or affected, or under any federal, state, local or foreign law, regulation or rule or any decree, judgment or order applicable to the Company or any of the Principal Subsidiaries, except as would not (a) reasonably be expected, either individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect or (b) interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Operative Documents.
 
(vii)         After due inquiry, such counsel does not know of any legal or governmental proceedings pending or threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject that would be required to be described in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and are not so described or of any statutes, regulations, contracts or other documents that are required to be described in the
Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus or to be filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits to the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus that are not described, filed or incorporated as required.
 
(viii)        In addition, such counsel shall state that he has reviewed the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and has participated in discussions with your representatives, representatives of the Company and its counsel and independent registered public accounting firm concerning the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  Such counsel shall state that, although he is not passing upon and does not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness or fairness of any of the statements in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (except to the extent stated in paragraph (iv) above), no facts have come to his attention that cause such counsel to believe that (i) the Registration Statement (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of its most recent Effective Date, contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (ii) the Disclosure Package (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the Applicable Time, included an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or (iii) the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and related schedules and other financial data contained or incorporated therein as to which such counsel need express no belief), as of the date of the Prospectus, or as of the Closing Date, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
Exhibit C
 
1.
                                     
I have reviewed the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
2.
                                     
The representations and warranties of the Company as set forth in the Underwriting Agreement are true and correct as of the Closing Date.
 
3.
                                     
The Company has performed all of its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement as are to be performed at or before the Closing Date.
 
4.
                                     
The conditions set forth in paragraphs (g) and (h) of Section 6 of the Underwriting Agreement have been met.
 
5.
                                     
The financial statements and other financial information included in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of the Company as of, and for, the periods presented in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
6.
                                     
No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to the best of my knowledge, are threatened.
 
7.
                                     
The Commission has not notified the Company of any objection to the use of the form of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto.
 
8.
                                     
Since the date of effectiveness of the Registration Statement, no event has occurred that is required under the Rules and Regulations or the Securities Act to be set forth in a supplement or amendment to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that has not been so set forth.
 
Exhibit D
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433 Registration No. 333-178708 May 14, 2012
 
$250,000,000 1.60% Senior Notes due 2015
 
 
$250,000,000 3.60% Senior Notes due 2022
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.
 
You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Citigroup Global Markets Inc. at 1-877-858-5407 or Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC at 1-800-221-1037.

Exhibit 4.2
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A:
                         
Form of Note
 
THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of May 17, 2012 (this "Supplemental Indenture") between Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"),
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer has entered into an Indenture, dated as of the date hereof (the "Original Indenture"), with Union Bank, N.A., as trustee;
 
WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";
 
WHEREAS, under Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Securities (as defined in the Original Indenture) may at any time be established by a supplemental indenture executed by the Issuer and the Trustee;
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Securities; and
 
WHEREAS, all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
Section 1.01.
         
Establishment of New Series.
 (a) There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 1.60% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "Notes").
 
(b)
          
There are to be authenticated and delivered $250,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
 
(c)
          
The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto.  The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
 
(d)
          
Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph 1 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
 
(e)
          
No Additional Amounts shall be payable in relation to the Notes.
 
 
(f)
           
If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
 
Section 2.01.
         
Definitions in the Indenture
.  All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined below shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Original Indenture.  The following are additional definitions used in this Supplemental Indenture:
 
"" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar United States federal or state law (or any similar foreign law) for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Act
 
The term of any Person means and includes any and all shares, rights to purchase, warrants or options (whether or not currently exercisable), participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) the equity (which includes, but is not limited to, common stock, preferred stock and partnership and joint venture interests) of such Person (excluding any debt securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable for, such equity).
"capital stock"
 
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event"
means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the first public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the consummation of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended following the consummation of a Change of Control so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies);  that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
provided
 
"Change of Control"
means the occurrence of any of the following:
 
(1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and those of the Subsidiaries of the Company taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of the Subsidiaries of the Company;
(2) the consummation of any transaction or series of related transactions (including, without limitation, any merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of a majority of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
 
(3) the Company consolidates, amalgamates or enters into an arrangement with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates, amalgamates or enters into an arrangement with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or the Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving or resulting Person (including any newly formed holding company that owns or controls at least a majority of the Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person) immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company is not comprised of Continuing Directors; or
 
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect Wholly Owned Subsidiary of a holding company and (b) (y) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to that transaction or (z) the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the holding company immediately after giving effect to such transaction.
 
"Change of Control Repurchase Event"
means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
 
"Continuing Directors"
means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of our proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
 
"Global Security"
or means a Note that is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the
"Global Note"
Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all the Outstanding Notes or any portion thereof.
 
"Investment Grade"
means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
 
"Issue Date"
means the date on which the Notes are initially issued under the Indenture.
 
"Moody's"
means Moody's Investors Service Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
 
"Notes"
has the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.01(a) hereof, and includes both the Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes.
 
"Rating Agency"
means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be, and that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
"S&P"
means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
 
"TTS Acquisition"
means the anticipated acquisition by the Company of all of the shares of TTS Energy AS from TTS Group ASA pursuant to the TTS Purchase Agreement.
 
"TTS Purchase Agreement"
means the Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of Shares in TTS Energy AS between TTS Group ASA, as seller, Cameron Norge Holdings AS, as purchaser, and the Company, as guarantor, dated April 17, 2012.
 
"Voting Stock"
means, with respect to any Person, capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
 
Section 2.02.
         
Other Definitions
.
 
 
Section 3.01.
         
Form
.  The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
 
Section 3.02.
         
Issuance of Additional Notes
.  The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes ("Additional Notes") under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000, subject to the provisions of Section 306 of the Original Indenture.  The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
 
Section 4.01.
         
Optional Redemption
.
 
(a)
          
At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
 
(b)
          
To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
 
(c)
          
Any redemption pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article Eleven of the Original Indenture.  The actual Redemption Price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto, shall be
 
certified in writing to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Independent Investment Banker (as defined in such paragraph 5) no later than two Business Days prior to each Redemption Date.
 
Section 4.02.
         
Mandatory Redemption
.  Except as set forth in Sections 4.03 and 5.01 below, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes and shall have no obligation to repurchase any Notes at the option of the Holders.
 
Section 4.03.
         
Special Mandatory Redemption
.
 
(a)
          
Upon the occurrence of the earlier of the following two events (each a "Special Mandatory Redemption Trigger Event"), the Company will be required to redeem all of the Notes (the "Special Mandatory Redemption"), upon notice as provided in this Section 4.03, at a Redemption Price in cash in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 7 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto:
 
(i)
           
September 30, 2012 if the TTS Acquisition has not been consummated on or prior to such date; and
 
(ii)
          
the earlier termination of the TTS Purchase Agreement.
 
(b)
          
Except as otherwise provided herein, any redemption pursuant to this Section 4.03 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article Eleven of the Original Indenture.  Within 10 days of the occurrence of a Special Mandatory Redemption Trigger Event, notice of the Special Mandatory Redemption shall be given in the manner provided in Section 107 of the Original Indenture to each Holder stating, among other matters prescribed in Article Eleven of the Original Indenture, that a Special Mandatory Redemption Trigger Event has occurred and setting forth the Redemption Date for the Special Mandatory Redemption (which shall be no earlier than 15 days and no later than 30 days from the date such notice is mailed).  In the event of a Special Mandatory Redemption, the Company shall, at least five days prior to the date that notice of the Special Mandatory Redemption is given to Holders pursuant to this Section 4.03 (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of the Redemption Date.
 
(c)
          
The provisions of this Section 4.03 may not be waived or modified without the consent of all Holders of the Notes subject to such waiver or modification.
 
Section 5.01.
         
Covenants of the Company
.  Article Ten of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the following new Section 1010 at the end of Article Ten:
Section 1010.  .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
 
(1)  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event, unless the Company has exercised its right pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto to redeem the Notes, the Company shall make an offer (the "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in amounts of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of each Holder's Notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but excluding, the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment").
 
(2)  Within 30 days following the consummation of any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to the consummation of any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by the Notes and described in the notice. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
 
(3)  The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations promulgated thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 1010, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1010 by virtue of such conflict.
 
(4)  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of the Notes (in amounts of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn; and
 
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Company.
 
(5)  The Paying Agent for the Notes shall promptly mail to each Holder of properly tendered Notes the repurchase price for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder
a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
 
(6)  The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.  In the event that such third party terminates or defaults on its Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to make a Change of Control Offer treating the date of such termination or default by such third party as though it were the date of the Change of Control Repurchase Event.
 
Section 6.01.
         
Events of Default
.  In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the definition thereof contained in Section 501 of the Original Indenture, the term "Event of Default," when used in the Indenture with respect to the Notes, shall mean any of the Events of Default set forth in Section 501 of the Original Indenture and shall also include any default in the performance, or breach, of the covenants set forth in of this Supplemental Indenture.
Article V
 
Section 7.01.
         
Integral Part
.  This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
 
Section 7.02.
         
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
.  The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
 
Section 7.03.
         
Counterparts
.  This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.  The exchange of copies of this Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Supplemental Indenture for all purposes.  Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
 
Section 7.04.
         
Governing Law
.  .
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
Section 7.05.
         
Trustee Makes No Representation; Trustee's Rights and Duties
.  The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture and shall not be liable in connection therewith. The rights and duties of the Trustee shall be determined by the express provisions of the Original Indenture and, except as expressly set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, nothing in this Supplemental Indenture shall in any way modify or otherwise affect the Trustee's rights and duties thereunder.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of $ Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto](1) on April 30, 2015.
                
                  
 
Interest Payment Dates: April 30 and October 30
Record Dates: April 15 and October 15
 
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
UNION BANK, N.A.
as
Trustee
 
Authorized Signatory
 
 
(1)  To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 
[
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO HEREIN
.]
(2)
 
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
1.
             
Interest; Additional Interest
.  Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 1.60% per annum from May 17, 2012 until maturity.  The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on April 30 and October 30 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date").  Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a Regular Record Date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be October 30, 2012.  The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate; and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
provided
provided
further
 
(2)  To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
2.
             
Method of Payment
.  The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the April 15 or October 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 307 of the Original Indenture with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a Paying Agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof.  The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is c/o Union Bank, N.A., 120 South San Pedro Street, 4th Floor, Los Angeles, California 90012) or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (a) each Global Security and (b) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the paying agent to an account in the United States on or prior to the applicable record date.  Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
provided
 
3.
             
Paying Agent and Registrar
.  Initially, Union Bank, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, shall act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar.  The Issuer may change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
 
4.
             
Indenture
.  The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of May 17, 2012 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 17, 2012 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Issuer and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb).  The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms.  To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.  The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000.  The Issuer may issue an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture.  Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest) as the initial Notes for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the Supplemental Indenture).
 
 
5.
             
Optional Redemption
.  (a)  At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
 
(b)
                                
To redeem the Notesprior to April 30, 2015, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date)
from the Redemption Date to April 30, 2015 computed by discounting such payments to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 20 basis points, plus in either case, any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
 
For purposes of determining the Redemption Price, the following definitions shall apply:
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price"
means, for any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date.
 
"Independent Investment Banker"
  means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
means each Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC or their affiliates which are primary U.S. government securities dealers, and their respective successors;,, that if any of the foregoing or their affiliates shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
  provided
however
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
 
"Treasury Rate"
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual or equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
 
6.
                                     
Mandatory Redemption
.  Except as set forth in paragraph 7 below and Section 5.01 of the Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory
redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes or to repurchase them at the option of the Holders.
 
7.
                                     
Special Mandatory Redemption
.  In the event of a Special Mandatory Redemption, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
 
8.
                                     
Notice of Redemption
.  Except with respect to a Special Mandatory Redemption, notice of redemption shall be given at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed.  In the event of a Special Mandatory Redemption, notice of redemption shall be given within 10 days of a Special Mandatory Trigger Event to each Holder.  Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.  On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the Redemption Price has been paid.
 
9.
             
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
.  The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.  The Security Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
 
10.
      
Persons Deemed Owners
.  The registered Holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
 
11.
      
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
.  Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby, any existing default relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities waive any other default under the Indenture.  Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 901 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Notes, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes in any material respect, to comply with the requirements of the Commission to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or additional Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any additional Events of Default, to secure the Notes or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Securities.
12.
      
Events of Defaults and Acceleration
.  Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes; (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption or otherwise; (iii) default in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in the Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty referred to in clause (i) or (ii) or included in the Indenture for the sole benefit of a series of Securities other than the Notes), and continuance of such default for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby a written notice specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" under the Indenture; and (iv)  certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer.  If any Event of Default referred to in clause (i) or (ii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable.  If an Event of Default referred to in clause (iii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such default, including the Notes, may declare all such Securities to be due and payable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default referred to in clause (iv), all Outstanding Securities shall become due and payable without further action or notice.  Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.
 
13.
      
Authentication
.  This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
 
14.
      
Abbreviations
.  Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
 
15.
      
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
.  Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
 
The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture.  Requests may be made to:
 
Cameron International Corporation
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas   77027
Attention:  General Counsel
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to
 
(Print or type assignee's name, address and zip code)
 
agent to transfer this Note on the books of the Issuer.  The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the face of this Note)
 
(Signature must be guaranteed by a financial institution that is a member of the Securities Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP"), the Stock Exchange Medallion Program ("SEMP"), the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.  Medallion Signature Program ("MSP") or such other signature guarantee program as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, SEMP or MSP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.)
 
 
The original principal amount of this Global Note is $250,000,000.  The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
 
(3)  To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 

Exhibit 4.3
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A:
                              
Form of Note
THIS SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE dated as of May 17, 2012 (this "Supplemental Indenture") between Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"),
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer has entered into an Indenture, dated as of the date hereof (the "Original Indenture"), with Union Bank, N.A., as trustee;
 
WHEREAS, the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, is herein called the "Indenture";
 
WHEREAS, under Sections 201, 301 and 901 of the Original Indenture, the form and terms of a new series of Securities (as defined in the Original Indenture) may at any time be established by a supplemental indenture executed by the Issuer and the Trustee;
 
WHEREAS, the Issuer proposes to create under the Indenture a new series of Securities; and
 
WHEREAS, all conditions necessary to authorize the execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture and to make it a valid and binding obligation of the Issuer have been done or performed.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the agreements and obligations set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
Section 1.01.
                            
Establishment of New Series.
  (a) There is hereby established a new series of Securities to be issued under the Indenture, to be designated as the Issuer's 3.60% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "Notes").
 
(b)
                                
There are to be authenticated and delivered $250,000,000 principal amount of Notes on the Issue Date, and from time to time thereafter there may be authenticated and delivered an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes.
 
(c)
                                 
The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities in substantially the form set out in Exhibit A hereto.  The Depositary with respect to the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
 
(d)
                                
Each Note shall be dated the date of authentication thereof and shall bear interest as provided in paragraph 1 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
 
(e)
                                 
No Additional Amounts shall be payable in relation to the Notes.
 
(f)
                                   
If and to the extent that the provisions of the Original Indenture are duplicative of, or in contradiction with, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall govern.
 
Section 2.01.
                            
Definitions in the Indenture
.  All capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined below shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Original Indenture.  The following are additional definitions used in this Supplemental Indenture:
 
"" means Title 11, United States Code, or any similar United States federal or state law (or any similar foreign law) for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Act
 
The term of any Person means and includes any and all shares, rights to purchase, warrants or options (whether or not currently exercisable), participations or other equivalents of or interests in (however designated) the equity (which includes, but is not limited to, common stock, preferred stock and partnership and joint venture interests) of such Person (excluding any debt securities that are convertible into, or exchangeable for, such equity).
"capital stock"
 
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event"
means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below Investment Grade by each of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the first public notice of an arrangement that could result in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the consummation of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended following the consummation of a Change of Control so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies);  that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if any of the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply does not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
provided
 
"Change of Control"
means the occurrence of any of the following:
 
(1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of the Company and those of the Subsidiaries of the Company taken as a whole to any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or one or more of the Subsidiaries of the Company;
(2) the consummation of any transaction or series of related transactions (including, without limitation, any merger, amalgamation, arrangement or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" or "group" (as those terms are used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Company, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of a majority of the then outstanding Voting Stock of the Company, measured by voting power rather than number of shares;
 
(3) the Company consolidates, amalgamates or enters into an arrangement with, or merges with or into, any Person, or any Person consolidates, amalgamates or enters into an arrangement with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction or series of transactions in which any of the outstanding Voting Stock of the Company or the Voting Stock of such other Person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving or resulting Person (including any newly formed holding company that owns or controls at least a majority of the Voting Stock of the Company or such other Person) immediately after giving effect to such transaction;
 
(4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company is not comprised of Continuing Directors; or
 
(5) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be considered to be a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (a) the Company becomes a direct or indirect Wholly Owned Subsidiary of a holding company and (b) (y) immediately following that transaction, the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of the holding company are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to that transaction or (z) the shares of Voting Stock of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the holding company immediately after giving effect to such transaction.
 
"Change of Control Repurchase Event"
means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event.
 
"Continuing Directors"
means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of the issuance of the Notes; or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of our proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director).
 
"Global Security"
or means a Note that is executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee to the Depositary or pursuant to the Depositary's instruction, all in accordance with the Indenture, which shall be registered in the name of the
"Global Note"
Depositary or its nominee and which shall represent, and shall be denominated in an amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of, all the Outstanding Notes or any portion thereof.
 
"Investment Grade"
means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's) and a rating of BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional Rating Agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
 
"Issue Date"
means the date on which the Notes are initially issued under the Indenture.
 
"Moody's"
means Moody's Investors Service Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
 
"Notes"
has the meaning assigned to it in Section 1.01(a) hereof, and includes both the Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes.
 
"Rating Agency"
means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if any of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the Company's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) under the Exchange Act, selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, as the case may be, and that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
"S&P"
means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of McGraw-Hill, Inc., or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
 
"Voting Stock"
means, with respect to any Person, capital stock of any class or kind the holders of which are ordinarily, in the absence of contingencies, entitled to vote for the election of directors (or persons performing similar functions) of such Person, even if the right so to vote has been suspended by the happening of such a contingency.
 
Section 2.02.
                            
Other Definitions
.
 
 
Section 3.01.
                            
Form
.  The Notes shall be issued initially in the form of one or more Global Securities, and the Notes and Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto, the terms of which are incorporated in and made a part of this Supplemental Indenture, and the Issuer and the Trustee, by their execution and
delivery of this Supplemental Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
 
Section 3.02.
                            
Issuance of Additional Notes
.  The Issuer may, from time to time, issue an unlimited amount of additional Notes ("Additional Notes") under the Indenture, which shall be issued in the same form as the Notes issued on the Issue Date and which shall have identical terms as the Notes issued on the Issue Date other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest. The Notes issued on the Issue Date shall be limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000, subject to the provisions of Section 306 of the Original Indenture.  The Notes issued on the Issue Date and any Additional Notes subsequently issued shall be treated as a single series for purposes of giving of notices, consents, waivers, amendments and taking any other action permitted under the Indenture and for purposes of interest accrual and redemptions.
 
Section 4.01.
                            
Optional Redemption
.
 
(a)
                                 
At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
 
(b)
                                
To redeem the Notes, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price in an amount determined in accordance with the provisions of paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto.
 
(c)
                                 
Any redemption pursuant to this Section 4.01 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Article Eleven of the Original Indenture.  The actual Redemption Price, calculated as provided in paragraph number 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto, shall be certified in writing to the Issuer and the Trustee by the Independent Investment Banker (as defined in such paragraph 5) no later than two Business Days prior to each Redemption Date.
 
Section 4.02.
                            
Mandatory Redemption
.  Except as set forth in Section 5.01 below, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes and shall have no obligation to repurchase any Notes at the option of the Holders.
 
Section 5.01.
                            
Covenants of the Company
.  Article Ten of the Original Indenture is hereby supplemented, but only in relation to the Notes, by the addition of the following new Section 1010 at the end of Article Ten:
 
Section 1010.  .
Repurchase at the Option of Holders Upon Change of Control Repurchase Event
(1)  Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event, unless the Company has exercised its right pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of the form of Note in Exhibit A hereto to redeem the Notes, the Company shall make an offer (the "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of Notes to repurchase all or any part (in amounts of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) of each Holder's Notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes repurchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes repurchased to, but excluding, the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Payment").
 
(2)  Within 30 days following the consummation of any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to the consummation of any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of an impending Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each Holder, with a copy to the Trustee, describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the Notes on the payment date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "Change of Control Payment Date"), pursuant to the procedures required by the Notes and described in the notice. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
 
(3)  The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations promulgated thereunder, to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with this Section 1010, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under this Section 1010 by virtue of such conflict.
 
(4)  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
(i) accept for payment all Notes or portions of the Notes (in amounts of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof) properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(ii) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes or portions of Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn; and
 
(iii) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes properly accepted, together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes or portions of Notes being purchased by the Company.
 
(5)  The Paying Agent for the Notes shall promptly mail to each Holder of properly tendered Notes the repurchase price for such Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each Holder
a new Note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of any Notes surrendered; provided, that each new Note shall be in a principal amount of $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 above that amount.
 
(6)  The Company shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes the Change of Control Offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements set forth in the Indenture applicable to a Change of Control Offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under such Change of Control Offer.  In the event that such third party terminates or defaults on its Change of Control Offer, the Company shall be required to make a Change of Control Offer treating the date of such termination or default by such third party as though it were the date of the Change of Control Repurchase Event.
 
Section 6.01.
                            
Events of Default
.  In addition to the Events of Default set forth in the definition thereof contained in Section 501 of the Original Indenture, the term "Event of Default," when used in the Indenture with respect to the Notes, shall mean any of the Events of Default set forth in Section 501 of the Original Indenture and shall also include any default in the performance, or breach, of the covenants set forth in of this Supplemental Indenture.
Article V
 
Section 7.01.
                            
Integral Part
.  This Supplemental Indenture constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
 
Section 7.02.
                            
Adoption, Ratification and Confirmation
.  The Original Indenture, as supplemented and amended by this Supplemental Indenture, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
 
Section 7.03.
                            
Counterparts
.  This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original; and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.  The exchange of copies of this Supplemental Indenture and of signature pages by facsimile or PDF transmission shall constitute effective execution and delivery of this Supplemental Indenture as to the parties hereto and may be used in lieu of the original Supplemental Indenture for all purposes.  Signatures of the parties hereto transmitted by facsimile or PDF shall be deemed to be their original signatures for all purposes.
 
Section 7.04.
                            
Governing Law
.  .
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE AND THE NOTES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK
Section 7.05.
                            
Trustee Makes No Representation; Trustee's Rights and Duties
.  The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture and shall not be liable in connection therewith. The rights and duties of the Trustee shall be determined by the express provisions of the Original Indenture and, except as expressly set forth in this Supplemental Indenture, nothing in this Supplemental Indenture shall in any way modify or otherwise affect the Trustee's rights and duties thereunder.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation, promises to pay to , or registered assigns, the principal sum of $  Dollars [or such greater or lesser amount as may be endorsed on the Schedule attached hereto](1) on April 30, 2022.
                    
                   
 
Interest Payment Dates: April 30 and October 30
Record Dates: April 15 and October 15
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
UNION BANK, N.A.
as
Trustee
 
 
(1)  To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 
 
[
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO HEREIN
.]
(2)
 
Capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
1.     .  Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company" or the "Issuer"), promises to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 3.60% per annum from May 17, 2012 until maturity.  The Issuer shall pay interest semi-annually on April 30 and October 30 of each such year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each an "Interest Payment Date").  Interest on the Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a Regular Record Date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be October 30, 2012.  The Issuer shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at the same rate; and it shall pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under the Bankruptcy Act) on overdue installments of interest (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful.  Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest; Additional Interest
provided
provided
further
 
(2)  To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 
2.     .  The Issuer shall pay interest on the Notes (except Defaulted Interest) to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the April 15 or October 15 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 307 of the Original Indenture with respect to Defaulted Interest, and the Issuer shall pay principal (and premium, if any) of the Notes upon surrender thereof to the Trustee or a Paying Agent on or after the Stated Maturity thereof.  The Notes shall be payable as to principal, premium, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for such purpose (which initially is c/o Union Bank, N.A., 120 South San Pedro Street, 4th Floor, Los Angeles, California 90012) or, at the option of the Issuer, payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders, and that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds shall be required with respect to principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, (a) each Global Security and (b) all other Notes aggregating at least $1,000,000 in principal amount the Holder of which shall have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuer or the paying agent to an account in the United States on or prior to the applicable record date.  Such payment shall be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
Method of Payment
provided
 
3.     .  Initially, Union Bank, N.A., the Trustee under the Indenture, shall act as Paying Agent and Security Registrar.  The Issuer may change any Paying Agent or Security Registrar without notice to any Holder.  The Issuer may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
4.     .  The Issuer issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of May 17, 2012 (the "Original Indenture"), as supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of May 17 2012 (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Original Indenture, the "Indenture"), between the Issuer and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb).  The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms.  To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling.  The Notes are the obligation of the Issuer, initially in aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000.  The Issuer may issue an unlimited principal amount of Additional Notes under the Indenture.  Any such Additional Notes that are actually issued shall be treated as issued and outstanding Notes (and as the same series (with identical terms other than with respect to the issue date, issue price and first payment of interest) as the initial Notes for the purposes indicated in Section 3.02 of the Supplemental Indenture).
Indenture
 
 
5.     .  (a)  At its option, the Issuer may choose to redeem all or any portion of the Notes, at once or from time to time.
Optional Redemption
 
(b)           To redeem the Notesprior to January 30, 2022, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed and (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date)
from the Redemption Date to April 30, 2022 computed by discounting such payments to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at a rate equal to the sum of the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 30 basis points, plus in either case, any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).  To redeem the Notes on or after January 30, 2022, the Issuer must pay a Redemption Price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed plus any accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
 
For purposes of determining the Redemption Price, the following definitions shall apply:
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue"
means the United States Treasury security or securities selected by the Independent Investment Banker as having an actual or interpolated maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of a comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price"
means, for any Redemption Date, the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date.
 
"Independent Investment Banker"
  means one of the Reference Treasury Dealers appointed by the Trustee after consultation with the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer"
means each Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC or their affiliates which are primary U.S. government securities dealers, and their respective successors;,, that if any of the foregoing or their affiliates shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in the United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
  provided
however
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations"
means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 3:30 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
 
"Treasury Rate"
means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual or equivalent yield to maturity or interpolated (on a day count basis) of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate will be calculated on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date.
6.             .  Except as set forth in Section 5.01 of the Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall not be required to make mandatory redemption or sinking fund payments with respect to the Notes or to repurchase them at the option of the Holders.
Mandatory Redemption
 
7.             .  Notice of redemption shall be given at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the Redemption Date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed.  Notes in denominations larger than $2,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed.  On and after the Redemption Date interest shall cease to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption and with respect to which the Redemption Price has been paid.
Notice of Redemption
 
8.     .  The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture.  The Security Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents, and the Issuer may require a Holder to pay any taxes or other governmental charges imposed in relation thereto.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
9.     .  The registered Holder of a Note shall be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
10.  .  Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby, any existing default relating to the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes, and the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities may on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities waive any other default under the Indenture.  Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture may be amended or supplemented for any of the purposes set forth in Section 901 of the Indenture, including to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency, to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Notes, to make any change that does not adversely affect the rights under the Indenture of any Holder of the Notes in any material respect, to comply with the requirements of the Commission to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, to evidence or provide for the acceptance of appointment under the Indenture of a successor or additional Trustee, to add to the covenants of the Issuer or any additional Events of Default, to secure the Notes or to establish the form or terms of any other series of Securities.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
11.  .  Events of Default with respect to the Notes include: (i) default for 30 days in the payment when due of interest on the Notes; (ii) default in payment when due of principal of or premium, if any, on the Notes when due at Stated Maturity, upon redemption or otherwise; (iii) default in the performance or breach of any covenant or warranty of the Company in the Indenture (other than a covenant or warranty referred to in clause (i) or (ii) or included in the Indenture for the sole benefit of a series of
Events of Defaults and Acceleration
Securities other than the Notes), and continuance of such default for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby a written notice specifying such default and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" under the Indenture; and (iv)  certain events of bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization with respect to the Issuer.  If any Event of Default referred to in clause (i) or (ii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then Outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable.  If an Event of Default referred to in clause (iii) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of all series affected by such default, including the Notes, may declare all such Securities to be due and payable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default referred to in clause (iv), all Outstanding Securities shall become due and payable without further action or notice.  Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture.
 
12.  .  This Note shall not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
 
13.  .  Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as:  TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
14.  .  Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuer has caused CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers to be printed on the Notes, and the Trustee may use CUSIP and corresponding ISIN numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders.  No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP and ISIN Numbers
 
The Issuer shall furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture.  Requests may be made to:
 
Cameron International Corporation
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas   77027
Attention:  General Counsel
To assign this Note, fill in the form below: (I) or (we) assign and transfer this Note to
 
 
The original principal amount of this Global Note is $250,000,000.  The following increases or decreases in this Global Note have been made:
 
 
(3)  To be included only if the Note is issued in global form.
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
May 17, 2012
 
Cameron International Corporation
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas 77027
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as counsel for Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), with respect to certain legal matters in connection with the registration by the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), of the proposed offer and sale by the Company of $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 1.60% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and $250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.60% Senior Notes due 2022 (the "2022 Notes" and, together with the 2015 Notes, the "Notes"), to be issued and sold pursuant to an underwriting agreement, dated May 14, 2012 (the "Underwriting Agreement"), by and among the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC and RBS Securities Inc., as representatives of the several underwriters named therein (the "Underwriters").
 
The Notes are being offered and sold pursuant to a prospectus supplement, dated May 14, 2012 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to Rule 424(b) on May 15, 2012, to a prospectus dated December 22, 2011 (such prospectus, as amended and supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement, the "Prospectus"), included in a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-178708) (the "Registration Statement"), which Registration Statement became effective upon filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to Rule 462(e) under the Securities Act.
 
The Notes are to be issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Base Indenture"), dated May 17, 2012, by and among the Company and Union Bank, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture (herein so called) and the Second Supplemental Indenture (herein so called and, together with the First Supplemental Indenture, the "Supplemental Indentures"), each dated May 17, 2012, establishing the forms and terms of the Notes. The Base Indenture, as so supplemented and amended by the Supplemental Indentures, is referred to as the "Indenture."
 
 
We have examined and relied upon originals or copies, certified or otherwise identified to our satisfaction, of (i) the certificate of incorporation of the Company, as amended through the date hereof, (ii) certain resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company relating to the registration of the Notes and related matters, (iii) certain resolutions adopted by the Special Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, (iv) the Registration Statement, (v) the Prospectus, (vi) the Base Indenture and each of the Supplemental Indentures, (vii) the Underwriting Agreement and (viii) such other certificates, instruments and documents as we consider appropriate for purposes of the opinions hereafter expressed. In addition, we reviewed such questions of law as we considered appropriate.
 
Based on the foregoing, and subject to the assumptions, limitations and qualifications set forth herein, we are of the opinion that, assuming the Notes have been duly authenticated by the Trustee and paid for by the Underwriters as contemplated by the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
 
The opinion expressed herein is qualified in the following respects:
 
A.            As to any facts material to the opinion contained herein, we have made no independent investigation of such facts and have relied, to the extent that we deem such reliance proper, upon certificates of public officials and officers or other representatives of the Company.
 
B.           We have assumed that (i) all information contained in all documents submitted to us for review is accurate and complete, (ii) all signatures on all documents examined by us are genuine, (iii) all documents submitted to us as originals are originals and all documents submitted to us as copies conform to the originals of those documents, (iv) each certificate from governmental officials reviewed by us is accurate, complete and authentic and all public records are accurate and complete, (v) each natural person signing any document has the legal capacity to do so, (vi) each person signing in a representative capacity any document reviewed by us had the legal capacity to do so and (vii) all Notes will be issued and sold in compliance with applicable federal and state securities laws and in the manner stated in the Prospectus and the Underwriting Agreement.
 
C.            The opinion expressed herein is limited in all respects to the federal laws of the United States of America, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the laws of the State of New York, and we are expressing no opinion as to the effect of the laws of any other jurisdiction, domestic or foreign.
D.            The opinion is qualified to the extent that the enforceability of any document, instrument or security may be limited by or subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer or conveyance, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally, and general equitable or public policy principles.
 
E.             We express no opinions concerning (i) the validity or enforceability of any provisions contained in the Indenture or the Notes that purport to waive or not give effect to rights to notices, defenses, subrogation or other rights or benefits that cannot be effectively waived under applicable law or (ii) the enforceability of indemnification provisions to the extent they purport to relate to liabilities resulting from or based upon negligence or any violation of federal or state securities or blue sky laws.
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion of counsel as Exhibit 5.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company dated on or about the date hereof, to the incorporation by reference of this opinion of counsel into the Registration Statement and to the reference to our Firm under the heading "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement and the Prospectus. In giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission issued thereunder.
 
 

Exhibit 12.1
 
 
(1) The portion of rent included in the calculation is believed to be a reasonable approximation of the interest factor.

Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact:  
Jeff Altamari
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
 
HOUSTON, May 14, 2012 /PRNewswire/  Cameron (NYSE: CAM) has priced a public offering of $250 million aggregate principal amount of 1.60% senior notes due 2015 and $250 million aggregate principal amount of 3.60% senior notes due 2022.  The sale of the senior notes is expected to settle on May 17, 2012, subject to customary closing conditions.  Cameron intends to use the net proceeds from the offering for the TTS Energy AS acquisition, debt retirement and general corporate purposes.
 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, RBS Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC are acting as joint book-running managers for the senior notes offering.  In addition, Standard Chartered Bank, UBS Investment Bank, Mitsubishi UFJ Securities, UniCredit Capital Markets and DNB Markets are acting as co-managers.  Copies of the prospectus supplement and the related base prospectus for the offering may be obtained by contacting Citigroup Global Markets Inc. at Brooklyn Army Terminal, 140 58th Street, 8th Floor, Brooklyn, New York 11220, 1-877-858-5407 Attention: Prospectus Department; or Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC at Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, 1-800-221-1037, Attention: Prospectus Department.  An electronic copy of the prospectus supplement and the related base prospectus will also be available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") at www.sec.gov.
 
This offering is made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement and prospectus filed by Cameron with the SEC.  This release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor will there be any sale of these securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. This offering may be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and related base prospectus.
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Act of 1934, including the expected consummation of the offering described and the use of proceeds.  Forward-looking statements include estimates and give our current expectations or forecasts of future events.  Although we believe our forward-looking statements are reasonable, they can be affected by inaccurate assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ from the expectations expressed.
 


