FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20121031080247.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On October 31, 2012, Cameron International Corporation (Cameron) issued a press release announcing its results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense and other costs (EBITDA) and adjusted EPS.  A reconciliation of EBITDA and adjusted EPS to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA and adjusted EPS are useful to the Companys investors because (i) EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions and (ii) adjusted EPS is useful in analyzing the companys on-going earnings potential and understanding certain significant items impacting the comparability of our results.  In addition, EBITDA and adjusted EPS are widely used benchmarks in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
October 31, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
2012-10
                      Jeff Altamari
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
(October 31, 2012) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) today reported net income of $223.6 million for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012, or $0.90 per diluted share. Earnings per share increased over 34 percent compared to the third quarter 2011 earnings of $0.67 per fully diluted share.
HOUSTON
Charges for the third quarter of 2012 were $3.4 million pre-tax, primarily related to integration costs. Earnings per share for the third quarter of 2012 excluding these charges was $0.91. Charges for the third quarter 2011 were $34.2 million pre-tax, which were related to retiring the Companys convertible debentures, litigation, and mark-to-market losses associated with foreign currency derivatives. Earnings per share for the third quarter of 2011 excluding these charges was $0.78.
Year-over-year revenues increase in every segment
Revenues of $2.2 billion for the quarter were at a record level, up nearly 32 percent from $1.7 billion a year ago.  Income before income taxes was $269.8 million, up over 36 percent from $198.0 million a year ago. Cameron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said that the year-over-year revenue increases were due to double digit revenue gains in all three of the Companys segments. In addition, the Companys EBITDA margin improved sequentially, with both Drilling & Productions Systems (DPS) and Process & Compression Systems (PCS) registering gains, Moore said.
Year-over-year orders increase 15%
Total orders were $2.3 billion for the quarter, up from $2.0 billion in the third quarter of 2011, for an increase of 15%.  Moore noted that orders continue to be near record levels reflecting the breadth of the Companys products and served markets. Moore also noted record bookings were established for the surface business, despite weaknesses in the North American rig count.
 
 
 
 
 
Camerons backlog at the end of the third quarter was $7.6 billion, up from the beginning of the year level of $6.0 billion and up from $5.8 billion a year ago.  Moore noted that this is a record backlog for the Company. This reflects over 30% growth from a year ago, Moore stated, While overall market growth in North America is under pressure, the Companys outlook for the fourth quarter is robust, with visibility to orders in the international and deepwater markets. Additionally, we continue to gain share in our surface North America market.
Capital investment continues. Balance sheet strong
Camerons cash flow from operations was $138.2 million year-to-date. Moore said cash flow from operations should accelerate in the fourth quarter as Camerons working capital needs are expected to continue to moderate. Moore also noted that Cameron spent approximately $280 million in capital expenditures year-to-date. We anticipate capital spending to approximate $500 million for 2012, Moore said, as we focus on investments in our aftermarket and unconventional resource related businesses, as well as our Brazilian capacity expansion.
Fourth quarter earnings guidance
Moore said Camerons fourth quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.95 to $0.97 per share, excluding charges.
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
 
###
 
 
 
 
 
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future orders, cash flow and earnings of the Company (including fourth quarter earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding working capital needs and capital expenditures, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellations of orders; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Individual adjustments assume a 17.1% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 248.1 million diluted shares
(2)
      These derivatives have not been designated as accounting hedges
(3)
      Individual adjustments assume a 16.9% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 247.1 million diluted shares
(2)
      These derivatives have not been designated as accounting hedges
(3)
      Includes $11.5 million of costs associated with retiring the 2.5% convertible debentures
(4)


