FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20121120123641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01       Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 14, 2012, Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), entered into a definitive Master Formation Agreement (the ) by and among Cameron, Schlumberger Limited, a Curaao corporation (), and certain subsidiaries of Schlumberger.  Under the terms of the MFA, Cameron and Schlumberger will contribute their respective subsea businesses to a joint venture, which will operate under the name, OneSubsea.  In addition, Schlumberger will pay $600 million to Cameron.  The joint venture will be owned 60% by Cameron and 40% by Schlumberger.  At the closing, Cameron, Schlumberger and certain of their respective subsidiaries will enter into a shareholders agreement (the ) in substantially the form attached as an exhibit to the MFA.  Under the terms of the Shareholders Agreement, the governance of the joint venture will be overseen by an executive committee comprised of three representatives appointed by Cameron and two representatives appointed by Schlumberger.  The transactions contemplated by the MFA are subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
Cameron
MFA
Schlumberger
TM
Shareholders Agreement
The foregoing description of the MFA and the Shareholders Agreement do not purport to be complete and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the MFA and the form of Shareholders Agreement, copies of which are filed as Exhibit 2.1 and Exhibit 2.2 hereto, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
.      .
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
           (d)        .
Exhibits
 
 
                      
 
 
 
 
           Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
Master Formation Agreement
 
by and among
 
Cameron International Corporation,
 
Schlumberger Limited
 
and
 
The Other Parties Listed
 
on the
 
Signatures Pages Hereto
 
November 14, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Page
 
 
 
i
 
 
 
 
 
 
ii
 
 
 
 
 
 
iii
 
 
 
 
 
 
iv
 
 
Master Formation Agreement
This Master Formation Agreement (as may be supplemented or amended in accordance with the provisions hereof, this ), dated as of November 14, 2012, is by and among Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), Schlumberger Limited, a Curaao corporation (), Schlumberger Technology Corporation, a Texas corporation (), and Schlumberger B.V., a Netherlands limited liability company ().
Agreement
Cyclone
Storm
Storm US
Storm BV
Cyclone and Storm, in each case acting where necessary through various subsidiaries, wish to combine the Cyclone Subsea Business and the Storm Subsea Business (each as defined below) into the following entities:
(a)            a limited liability company to be formed under the laws of the State of Delaware (), which will hold the U.S. portions of such businesses and will be owned 60% by Cyclone or an Affiliate of Cyclone and 40% by Storm US or an Affiliate of Storm US; and
US Venture Entity
(b)            an entity to be formed under the laws of the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Ireland or Luxembourg (), which will hold the non-U.S. portions of such businesses and will be owned 60% by one or more Affiliates of Cyclone and 40% by Storm BV or one or more Affiliates of Storm BV.
Non-U.S. Venture Entity
Accordingly, in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants of the parties set forth herein and upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein, the parties hereto, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1.
DEFINITIONS AND GENERAL
1.1            Definitions.  The capitalized terms defined in this Section 1.1, whenever used in this Agreement, shall have the following meanings for all purposes of this Agreement:
 means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Person in question; , that no Venture Entity shall be considered an Affiliate of any of Cyclone, Storm, Storm US or Storm BV and Cyclone, Storm and their respective non-Venture Entity Affiliates shall not be considered Affiliates of the Venture Entities. For purposes of this definition,  means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities or general partnership or managing member interests, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
provided, however
control
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(a).
Affiliated Owners
 has the meaning given such term in the preamble hereto.
Agreement
 means the Sherman Antitrust Act, the Clayton Antitrust Act, the HSR Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act, the EU Merger Regulation, non-U.S. antitrust and competition laws and all other laws that are designed or intended to prohibit, restrict or regulate actions having the purpose or effect of monopolization or restraint of trade or lessening of competition through merger or acquisition.
Antitrust Law
 
 
 
-1-
 
 
 means with respect to Cyclone or Storm, $10,000,000 per calendar year, in each case which amount shall be prorated for the period from the Closing Date to December 31 in the year in which the Closing Date occurs.
Applicable Deductible
 means any applicable statute, law, regulation, ordinance, rule, judgment, order, decree, permit, approval, concession, grant, franchise, license, agreement or requirement of any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the matter or matters in question, and in each case as existing (including all of the terms and provisions of applicable common law) at the time in question.
Applicable Law
 means, with respect to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as the case may be, (i) a Loss, whether or not insured, as a result of any fire, flood, accident, explosion, strike, labor disturbance, riot, act of God or public enemy or other calamity or casualty, unless such Loss shall have been substantially cured, repaired or restored by Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, prior to the Closing Date, or (ii) that proceedings have been instituted or threatened seeking the condemnation or other taking of a portion of such business in the future.
Casualty or Condemnation Loss
 means (a) with respect to Cyclone or Storm, that any one of the following events has occurred after the date of this Agreement: (i) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, and its subsidiaries taken as a whole to any Person (including any person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act)) other than a subsidiary of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be; (ii) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be; (iii) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation), the result of which is that any Person (including any person (as defined in clause (a)(i))) becomes the beneficial owner (as that term is used in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 30% of the then-outstanding voting securities of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; or (iv) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, are not Continuing Directors; and (b) with respect to an Affiliated Owner, a change in the equity ownership of the Affiliated Owner has occurred such that Cyclone or Storm, as applicable, no longer owns, directly or indirectly, all outstanding equity interests in such Affiliated Owner. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control Event with respect to Cyclone or Storm if (a) Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, becomes a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary of a Person or directly or indirectly sells, transfers, conveys or otherwise disposes of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of itself and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to such Person or a wholly owned subsidiary thereof and (b)(i) the holders of the voting securities of such Person immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of voting securities of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, immediately prior to that transaction or (ii) both (x) the holders of voting securities of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, immediately prior to that transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the voting securities of such Person, measured by voting power rather than number of shares, immediately following such transaction and (y) no person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 30% of the voting securities of such Person, measured by voting power rather than number of shares, immediately following such transaction. For purposes of this definition,  means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, who: (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date of this Agreement; or (2) was nominated for election or elected to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination or election.
Change of Control Event
Continuing Director
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(a).
Change of Control Notice
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(a).
Change of Control Third Party
 means, with respect to any entity, (a) the articles or certificate of formation, incorporation or organization (or the comparable organizational documents) of that entity, (b) the bylaws or limited liability company agreement or regulations (or the comparable governing documents) of that entity and (c) each document setting forth the designation, amount and relative rights, limitations and preferences of any class or series of equity ownership in that entity or any rights in respect of that entitys equity ownership interests.
Charter Documents
 means any claim, demand, suit, action, investigation, proceeding, governmental action or cause of action of any kind or character (in each case, whether civil, criminal, investigative or administrative), known or unknown, under any theory, including those based on theories of contract, tort, statutory liability, strict liability, employer liability, premises liability, products liability or breach of warranty.
Claim
 means the closing of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to occur on the Closing Date.
Closing
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.9(a).
Closing Date
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.6(a).
Closing Statement
 means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 has the meaning given such term in the Shareholders Agreement.
Committee
 means contracts, leases, licenses, indentures, agreements, purchase orders, commitments and all other legally binding arrangements, whether oral or written.
Contracts
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Cyclone
 means every Employee Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained or contributed to, or required to be contributed to, by Cyclone, or any ERISA Affiliate of Cyclone, for the benefit of current or former employees of the Cyclone Subsea Business.
Cyclone Benefit Plan
 means the disclosure letter from Cyclone to Storm, Storm US and Storm BV dated and delivered the date of this Agreement and containing exceptions to the representations, warranties and covenants hereof and certain other information called for hereby.
Cyclone Disclosure Letter
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.1.
Cyclone Entities
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.6(a).
Cyclone Financial Information
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.11.
Cyclone Governmental Approvals
 means Cyclone and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, managers and employees.
Cyclone Indemnified Persons
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.9(c).
Cyclone Joint Facility
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.9(a)(i).
Cyclone Leased Real Property
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.17.
Cyclone Material Contract
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.3(a).
Cyclone Net Working Capital
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.9(a)(i).
Cyclone Other Real Property Rights
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.9(a)(i).
Cyclone Owned Real Property
 means a subsidiary of Cyclone that owns an interest in a Venture Entity.
Cyclone Owner
 means any Environmental Liabilities arising or resulting from (a) any violation of Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements by Cyclone or its Affiliates in connection with the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Cyclone Transferred Assets prior to the Closing Date; (b) any Release or presence of Hazardous Substances on, at, in, under or from any Cyclone Owned Real Property or any Cyclone Leased Real Property to the extent such Release occurred or such presence existed prior to the Closing Date; or (c) any disposal or arrangement for disposal of Hazardous Substances prior to the Closing Date by Cyclone or its Affiliates at any third-party landfill or other third-party disposal location in connection with the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Cyclone Transferred Assets.
Cyclone Pre-Closing Environmental Liabilities
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.18(a).
Cyclone Proprietary Rights
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.9(b).
Cyclone Real Property Lease
 means the Intellectual Property that (i) is owned by Cyclone or its Affiliates or to which Cyclone or its Affiliates otherwise have rights, (ii) is not primarily related to, but has some utility to and is used in or involved in a work in progress for, the Cyclone Subsea Business, and (iii) exists as of the Closing Date, including the Cyclone Retained IP that is identified in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter.
Cyclone Retained IP
Section 9.6
 means the business of Cyclone and its subsidiaries in providing equipment, technology, methods and services for subsea oil and gas development and production, including the following equipment, activities and services: (i) subsea trees; (ii) subsea manifolds; (iii) subsea jumpers and connectors; (iv) subsea power and connectors; (v) subsea control systems; (vi) subsea surveillance; (vii) subsea flow assurance consulting; (viii) subsea well intervention and pressure control systems; (ix) subsea pumps; (x) subsea processing; (xi) subsea wellheads; (xii) equipment design and manufacture for subsea oil and gas development and production; (xiii) data management services as necessary or desirable to perform the foregoing; and (xiv) research and development programs for any of the foregoing, as such business lines have been operated in accordance with Cyclones past practice prior to the Closing Date, and as otherwise reflected in the Cyclone Financial Information.  For the avoidance of doubt, the Cyclone Subsea Business does not include (1) Cyclones Valves & Measurement business segment or its Flow Control or Drilling Systems businesses or any products or technologies of such segment or businesses, including chokes and actuators or (2) the Non-Transferred Cyclone Assets.
Cyclone Subsea Business
 has the meaning given such term in the term sheet attached as .
Cyclone Subsea Business Employee
Exhibit 1.1
 has the meaning given such term in Section 6.7(a).
Cyclone Subsea Proposal
 means the agreement to be executed and delivered by Cyclone and the Venture Entities at or prior to Closing with terms consistent with the term sheet attached as .
Cyclone Supply Agreement
Exhibit 7.7(c)
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.5(a).
Cyclone Target Net Working Capital
 means the assets to be transferred, whether directly or pursuant to the transfer of an entity, by Cyclone and its Affiliates to the Venture Entities and their subsidiaries pursuant to Section 2.1, subject to Section 2.3.
Cyclone Transferred Assets
 has the meaning given such term in the term sheet attached as .
Cyclone Transferred Employees
Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
-5-
 
 
 means the Intellectual Property that (i) is owned by Cyclone or its Affiliates or to which Cyclone or its Affiliates otherwise have rights, (ii) is used or held for use primarily in connection with or otherwise primarily related to the Cyclone Subsea Business and (iii) exists as of the Closing Date, including the Cyclone Proprietary Rights that are identified in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter.
Cyclone Transferred IP
Section 5.18(a)
 means, subject to the indemnification obligations of Cyclone and its Affiliates under Article 8, (i) the liabilities of Cyclone and its Affiliates to be assumed by the Venture Entities and their subsidiaries pursuant to Section 2.1, (ii) those held by any entity to be transferred by Cyclone and its Affiliates to the Venture Entities pursuant to Section 2.1, and (iii) the obligations of Cyclone and its Affiliates under any Contracts included as Cyclone Transferred Assets; , that the term Cyclone Transferred Liabilities shall not include any Excluded Liabilities.
Cyclone Transferred Liabilities
provided
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.8.
Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries Interests
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.1.
Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.1.
Cyclone Transferring Affiliates
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.2(a).
Disposing Party
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.2(a).
Disposition
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.2(a).
Disposition Notice
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(a).
Election Period
 means all pension, retirement, profit-sharing, medical, vacation, hospitalization, vision, dental, health, life, severance or termination of employment plans, including any employee benefit plan as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA.
Employee Benefit Plans
 means the agreement regarding certain employee matters to be executed and delivered by the parties, the Venture Entities and US EmployCo at or prior to the Closing with terms consistent with the term sheet attached as .
Employee Matters Agreement
Exhibit 1.1
 means any Applicable Law relating to (a) the prevention, abatement or elimination of pollution, (b) the generation, handling, treatment, storage, disposal or transportation of Hazardous Substances, (c) exposure to Hazardous Substances, including in the workplace, or (d) protection or conservation of the environment or natural resources (in each case other than that which relates to product liability or defect matters).
Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements
 shall mean any and all liabilities (including liabilities for any remedial, removal, response, abatement, cleanup, investigative and/or monitoring costs and any other related costs and expenses) pursuant to or under any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements, including such liabilities incurred or imposed (a) pursuant to any legally-binding agreement, order, notice of responsibility, directive (including directives embodied in Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements), injunction, judgment or settlement issued or entered under or in connection with Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements, or (b) pursuant to any Claim by a Governmental Authority or other Person for personal injury, property damage, damage to natural resources, remediation, or payment or reimbursement of response costs asserted by such Governmental Authority or Person pursuant to any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements.
Environmental Liabilities
 
 
 
-6-
 
 
 means the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
 means with respect to any Person, any trade or business, whether or not incorporated, which together with such Person would be deemed a single employer within the meaning of Section 414(b), (c) or (m) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 means Council Regulation (EC) No. 139/2004 of 20 January 2004 on the control of concentrations between undertakings (published in the Official Journal of the European Union on January 29, 2004 at L 24/1).
EU Merger Regulation
 means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 has the meaning given such term in Section 2.4.
Excluded Liabilities
 means with respect to Cyclone or Storm, intercompany debt that has a corresponding account receivable in the same amount and that is contemplated by Cyclones Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan or Storms Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan, as applicable.
Exempt Intercompany Debt
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.2(a).
Exercise Notice
 means the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of the United States of 1977, as amended.
FCPA
means, with respect to Storm, Storm US and Storm BV, the representations and warranties contained in Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.7, 4.8, the last sentence of 4.9(a)(i), 4.10, 4.18(b)(i) and 4.22, and with respect to Cyclone, the representations and warranties contained in Sections 5.1, 5.2, 5.7, 5.8, the last sentence of 5.9(a)(i), 5.10, 5.18(b)(i) and 5.22.
Fundamental Representations
 
means any improvement, enhancement or modification to the Transferred IP or the Retained IP made by one or more Venture Entities (or by one or more third parties (e.g., a contractor or consultant retained on a work for hire basis) with an obligation to transfer rights to any such improvement, enhancement or modification to one or more Venture Entities), and inventions, discoveries, works of authorship, know-how, technical information, work product and/or other information developed by one or more Venture Entities (or by one or more third parties (e.g., a contractor or consultant retained on a work for hire basis) with an obligation to transfer rights to any such inventions, discoveries, works of authorship, know-how, technical information, work product and/or other information), and all Intellectual Property embodied in any of the foregoing that are created, conceived or first reduced to practice after the Closing Date. Future Developments do not include improvements, enhancements or modifications made to the Transferred IP or the Retained IP, or inventions, discoveries, works of authorship, know-how, technical information, work product or other information developed by one or more Venture Entities or by one or more parties with an obligation to transfer rights to any of the foregoing to one or more Venture Entities as to which the Venture Entities do not have the right to license such Future Development as would otherwise be required by Section 9.5.
Future Developments
 
 
 
 
-7-
 
 
 means generally accepted accounting principles, as in effect in the U.S. applied on a consistent basis.
GAAP
 means any permit, license, franchise, approval, consent, waiver, certification, qualification or other authorization issued, granted, given or otherwise made available or the expiration or termination of any applicable waiting period by or under the authority of any Governmental Authority or pursuant to any Applicable Law.
Governmental Approval
 means any federal, state, local or foreign government or any provincial, departmental or other political subdivision thereof, or any entity, body or authority exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory, administrative or other governmental functions, including any court, department, commission, board, bureau, agency, instrumentality or administrative body.
Governmental Authority
 by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, or in any manner providing for the payment of any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person or otherwise protecting the holder of such Indebtedness or other obligation against loss (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by obtaining letters of credit, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, or to take-or-pay or otherwise); , , that the term  shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
provided
however
Guarantee
 means any substance, material or waste that is regulated (or the cleanup of which can be required) under any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirement, whether applicable now or in the future. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Hazardous Substances shall include (a) hazardous wastes, hazardous materials, hazardous substances, toxic substances, radioactive materials, pollutants, or contaminants or other similar identified designations in any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirement; (b) petroleum, refined petroleum products and fractions or by-products thereof, in each case whether in their virgin, used or waste state; and (c) polychlorinated biphenyls, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials.
Hazardous Substances
 
 
 
-8-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.4.
HSR Act
 of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property or assets purchased by such Person, (e) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding trade accounts payable, trade advertising and accrued obligations), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (h) all capital lease obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations of such Person in respect of interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements or other interest or exchange rate hedging arrangements and (j) all obligations of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and bankers acceptances. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership in which such Person is a general partner, other than to the extent that the instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness expressly limits the liability of such Person in respect thereof.
Indebtedness
 means any party or any Venture Entity that is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement.
Indemnified Party
 means any party or Venture Entity from which indemnification is sought under this Agreement.
Indemnifying Party
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.6(b).
Independent Accountants
 has the meaning given such term in Section 9.10.
Independent IP
 means patents, patent applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), records of invention, invention disclosures, trademarks (registered or unregistered), trademark applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), trade names, copyrights (registered or unregistered), copyright applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), service marks (registered or unregistered), service mark applications (filed, unfiled or being prepared), database rights (registered or unregistered), all together with the goodwill associated with such marks or names, trade secrets, shop and royalty rights, technology, inventions, know-how, processes and confidential and proprietary information, including any being developed (including but not limited to designs, manufacturing data, design data, test data, operational data, and formulae), whether or not recorded in tangible form through drawings, software, reports, manuals or other tangible expressions, whether or not subject to statutory registration, whether foreign or domestic, and all rights to any of the foregoing.
Intellectual Property
 means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
 
 
-9-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in Section 7.15(b).
Joint Contracts
 has the meaning given such term in Section 7.15(c).
Joint Permits
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(b)(v).
Jointly Created Assets
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(b)(v).
Jointly Created Liabilities
 means, collectively, the Cyclone Transferred Liabilities and the Storm Transferred Liabilities.
Liabilities
 means the rate appearing on the appropriate page of the Bloomberg Monitor (or such other page or service as may replace it for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of leading reference banks) at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time, as the rate for U.S. Dollar deposits for a three-month interest period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, LIBOR shall be the rate (rounded to the nearest 1/16 of 1% or, if there is no nearest 1/16 of 1%, the next higher 1/16 of 1%) at which U.S. Dollar deposits of $5,000,000 are offered for a three-month interest period in immediately available funds by the principal London office of JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. to leading banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. London time (or as soon thereafter as possible).
LIBOR
 means, with respect to any property or other asset of any Person (or any revenues, income or profits of that Person therefrom) (in each case whether the same is consensual or nonconsensual or arises by Contract, operation of law, legal process or otherwise), (i) any mortgage, lien, security interest, pledge, attachment, levy or other charge or encumbrance of any kind thereupon or in respect thereof or (ii) any other arrangement under which the same is transferred, sequestered or otherwise identified with the intention of subjecting the same to, or making the same available for, the payment or performance of any liability in priority to the payment of the ordinary, unsecured creditors of that Person. For purposes of this Agreement, a Person will be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset that it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease, synthetic lease or other title retention agreement relating to that asset.
Lien
 shall mean any loss, cost, liability or expense, settlement, damage of any kind, judgment, obligation, charge, fee, fine, penalty, interest, court cost and/or administrative and reasonable attorneys fees or disbursements (at all levels, including appellate), but excluding a partys indirect corporate and administrative overhead costs.
Loss
 means, with respect to the Subsea Business, the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable, any change, development, effect or occurrence (any such item, an ) that is materially adverse to the business, assets or condition (financial or otherwise) of such business except, in each case, for any Effect to the extent such Effect results from or is attributable to the following:
Material Adverse Effect
Effect
(i) any change in conditions in the U.S., foreign or global economy or capital or financial markets generally, including any change in interest or exchange rates, except to the extent such Effect has a disproportionate effect on such business when compared to the other businesses operating in the same industry,
 
 
 
-10-
 
 
(ii) any change in conditions (including any change or proposed change in general legal, regulatory, political, economic or business conditions or any change or proposed change in Applicable Law or GAAP) in, or otherwise generally affecting, the industry in which such business operates, except to the extent such Effect has a disproportionate effect on such business when compared to the other businesses operating in the same industry,
(iii) the announcement or pendency of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby, including any impact thereof on relationships, contractual or otherwise, with any customers, suppliers, distributors, partners or employees,
(iv) any act of terrorism or war (whether or not threatened, pending or declared) or any escalation or worsening thereof, except to the extent such Effect has a disproportionate effect on such business when compared to the other businesses operating in the same industry and except to the extent such Effect directly affects the properties or other assets of the Subsea Business, the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable,
(v) any hurricane, tornado, flood, earthquake, tsunami, volcanic eruption or other natural disaster, except to the extent such Effect has a disproportionate effect on such business when compared to the other businesses operating in the same industry and except to the extent such Effect directly affects the properties or other assets of the Subsea Business, the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable,
(vi) any action taken by Cyclone or Storm with the written consent of the other party, or
(vii) any failure by Cyclone, Storm or such business to meet revenue or earnings forecasts or projections (it being understood that, without limiting the applicability of the provisions contained in clause (i) or (ii) above, the cause or causes of any such failure may be deemed either alone or in combination with other events to constitute a Material Adverse Effect and may be taken into account in determining whether a Material Adverse Effect has occurred).
 means information not in the public domain relating to costs, profits or profit margins; strategic plans; plans for development of new products, services or technologies; customer names; bids, pricing policies, prices, price schedules or terms; proposed transactions; technology plans or status of implementation; proposals; contracts; non-published Intellectual Property; or marketing plans.
Non-Public Information
 means the Non-Transferred Cyclone Assets and the Non-Transferred Storm Assets.
Non-Transferred Assets
 
 
 
-11-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in Section 2.3.
Non-Transferred Cyclone Assets
 means all products and services of Cyclone and its Affiliates other than the Cyclone Subsea Business.
Non-Transferred Cyclone Businesses
 has the meaning given such term in Section 7.15(c).
Non-Transferred Permit
 has the meaning given such term in Section 2.3.
Non-Transferred Storm Assets
 means all products and services of Storm and its Affiliates other than the Storm Subsea Business.
Non-Transferred Storm Businesses
 has the meaning given such term in Section 5.19(f).
Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan
 means the equity interest in Non-U.S. Venture Entity (i) that shall be acquired by Storm BV pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(ii) and (ii) the amount of which shall be determined pursuant to the procedures described in Section 6.10.
Non-U.S. Exchanged Interest
 means the cash (i) that shall be used by Storm BV to acquire an equity interest in Non-U.S. Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(iii) and (ii) the amount of which shall be determined pursuant to the procedures described in Section 6.10.
Non-U.S. Purchase Price
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.19(f).
Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan
 has the meaning given such term in the recitals.
Non-U.S. Venture Entity
 means Non-U.S. Venture Entity and its subsidiaries, collectively.
Non-U.S. Venture Entity Group
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(a).
Notifying Party
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(a).
Other Party
 has the meaning given such term in Section 10.1(b).
Outside Date
 has the meaning given such term in Section 9.12(a).
Patent Family
 means the U.S. Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
PBGC
 means every benefit plan subject to Title IV of ERISA or the minimum funding requirements of Section 302 of ERISA.
Pension Benefit Plan
 means a Persons direct or indirect ownership interest in each Venture Entity, which interest is, with respect to (i) Cyclone (directly or through subsidiaries), 60%, and (ii) Storm (directly or through subsidiaries), 40%.
Percentage Interest
 
 
 
-12-
 
 
 means (a) Liens for Taxes that are not yet due and payable, or are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP; (b) workers or unemployment compensation Liens arising in the ordinary course of business; (c) mechanics, materialmens, suppliers, vendors or similar Liens arising in the ordinary course of business for amounts not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith; (d) utility easements not materially impairing the use or value of the burdened property (but not any violation thereof or encroachment thereon); (e) zoning, entitlement, building and other land use regulations which do not materially impair, prohibit or restrict the occupancy or current use of the real property which they encumber (but not any violation thereof or encroachment thereon); (f) covenants, conditions, restrictions, easements and other similar matters of record affecting title to the real property or matters that may be disclosed by a survey of the real property which do not materially impair, prohibit or restrict the occupancy or current use of the real property which they encumber (but not any violation thereof or any encroachment thereon); and (g) Liens which, in the aggregate, are not reasonably likely to impair, in any material respect, the continued use of such asset or property (or interest therein) as it is presently used.
Permitted Encumbrances
 means any corporation, limited liability company, individual, joint stock company, joint venture, partnership, unincorporated association, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
 means inventory; machinery and equipment; furniture and fixtures; tools; leasehold improvements; transportation equipment; computing and telecommunications equipment; and other items of tangible personal property (and interests in any of the foregoing).
Personal Property
 has the meaning given such term in Section 6.9.
Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan
 means the payment, offer or promise to pay, or authorization of the offer, promise or payment, directly or indirectly (through one or more intermediaries), of any money or anything of value to (i) any Public Official for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of, or for securing any improper advantage from, such Public Official, or a government, instrumentality thereof, or political party, in order to assist in any way in obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any person; or (ii) any Public Official or other person or entity, if such payment, offer, promise or authorization would violate any Applicable Law of any country to which any member of the Venture Group is subject, the FCPA or the UK Bribery Act.
Prohibited Payment
 shall have the meaning given such term in Section 6.9.
Proposing Party
 means any public international organization covered by the FCPA or the UK Bribery Act, including international financial institutions such as the World Bank Group, the International Bank for Reconstruction & Development (IBRD), the European Bank for Reconstruction & Development (EBRD), and the Asian Development Bank.
Public International Organization
 
 
 
-13-
 
 
 means any officer or employee of a government or any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof, or of a Public International Organization, any political party, any official of a political party, any candidate for political office, or any person acting in an official capacity for or on behalf of any such government, department, agency, instrumentality, Public International Organization, or political party.
Public Official
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.2(a).
Recipient Party
 means any spill, effluent, emission, leaking, pumping, pouring, emptying, escaping, dumping, injection, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching, abandoning, adding, or migration of any Hazardous Substances into the indoor or outdoor environment, or into or out of any property or facility.
Release
 has the meaning given such term in Section 8.2(b).
Remedial Action
 has the meaning given such term in Section 11.1(a).
Response Notice
 has the meaning given such term in Section 7.15(a).
Restricted Asset
 has the meaning given such term in Section 7.15(a).
Restricted Liability
 has the meaning given such term in Section 7.15(a).
Restriction
 has the meaning given such term in Section 6.9.
Reviewing Party
 means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.9(b).
Second Closing
 means the agreement to be executed and delivered by the parties and the Venture Entities at or prior to Closing with terms consistent with the term sheet attached as .
Shared Services Agreement
Exhibit 7.7(a)
 means the agreement in substantially the form attached hereto as to be executed on the Closing Date by Cyclone, Storm, each Cyclone Owner, each Storm Owner, each Venture Entity and each shareholder of US EmployCo relating to certain governance and other matters regarding the Venture Entities and US EmployCo.
Shareholders Agreement
Exhibit 1.2
 means license, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, customs duties, capital stock, withholding, social security (or similar), unemployment, disability, real property, personal property, sales, use, transfer, registration, value added or other similar taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority, (i) income, gross receipts, franchise, profits, alternative or add-on minimum, windfall profits or other similar taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority, (ii) Taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority in Brazil, (iii) interest, penalties or other additions to Tax of any kind and (iv) any Taxes described in Sections 8.4(a)(iv), (v), (vi), (vii) or (viii) or Sections 8.4(b)(iv), (v), (vi), (vii) or (viii).
Specified Tax Losses
but shall not include
 
 
 
-14-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Storm
 means every Employee Benefit Plan sponsored, maintained, or contributed to, or required to be contributed to, by Storm, or any ERISA Affiliate of Storm, for the benefit of current or former employees of the Storm Subsea Business.
Storm Benefit Plan
 has the meaning given such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
Storm BV
 means the disclosure letter from Storm, Storm US and Storm BV to Cyclone dated and delivered the date of this Agreement and containing exceptions to the representations, warranties and covenants hereof and certain other information called for hereby.
Storm Disclosure Letter
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.1.
Storm Entities
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.6(a).
Storm Financial Information
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.11.
Storm Governmental Approvals
 means Storm and its Affiliates and their respective officers, directors, managers and employees.
Storm Indemnified Persons
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.9(c).
Storm Joint Facility
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.9(a)(i).
Storm Leased Real Property
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.17.
Storm Material Contract
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.3(b).
Storm Net Working Capital
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.9(a)(i).
Storm Other Real Property Rights
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.9(a)(i).
Storm Owned Real Property
 means a subsidiary of Storm that owns an interest in a Venture Entity.
Storm Owner
 means any Environmental Liabilities arising or resulting from (a) any violation of Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements by Storm or its Affiliates in connection with the operation of the Storm Subsea Business or the Storm Transferred Assets prior to the Closing Date; (b) any Release or presence of Hazardous Substances on, at, in, under or from any Storm Owned Real Property or any Storm Leased Real Property to the extent such Release occurred or such presence existed prior to the Closing Date; or (c) any disposal or arrangement for disposal of Hazardous Substances prior to the Closing Date by Storm or its Affiliates at any third-party landfill or other third-party disposal location in connection with the operation of the Storm Subsea Business.
Storm Pre-Closing Environmental Liabilities
 
 
 
-15-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.18(a).
Storm Proprietary Rights
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.9(b).
Storm Real Property Lease
 means the Intellectual Property that (i) is owned by Storm or its Affiliates or to which Storm or its Affiliates otherwise have rights, (ii) is not primarily related to, but has some utility to and is used in or involved in a work in progress for, the Storm Subsea Business, and (iii) exists as of the Closing Date, including the Storm Retained IP that is identified in of the Storm Disclosure Letter.
Storm Retained IP
Section 9.7
 means (a) all of the assets and businesses of Framo Engineering A.S. and any direct or indirect subsidiary thereof; (b) the flow assurance consultancy businesses of Storm; (c) the businesses and assets of Storm that provide surveillance of the integrity of offshore and onshore installations, offshore and onshore pipelines, subsea umbilicals, subsea flowlines, and subsea risers; (d) the Diamould assets and business of Storm; and (e) the assets of Storm set forth in of the Storm Disclosure Letter intended to be used to perform or to facilitate rigless well intervention for subsea wells, in each case as such business lines have been operated in accordance with Storms past practice prior to the Closing Date, and as otherwise reflected in the Storm Financial Information; , that for sake of clarity,  excludes (i) all  of the business, products and services of or offered by the Storm Information Solutions business of Storm such as, but not limited to Pipesim, Petrel, Eclipse and Intersect; (ii) the assets and business acquired and conducted by Storm via the acquisition of SPT Group, including without limitation Olga, and the consulting businesses of Storm supporting such business; (iii) any products or services that are utilized or situated within the wellbore or in the reservoir; (iv) the business, products or services of or offered by the Testing Services business of Storm, including but not limited to landing strings; and (v) the Non-Transferred Storm Assets.
Storm Subsea Business
Section 1.1
provided
Storm Subsea Business
 has the meaning given such term in the term sheet attached as .
Storm Subsea Business Employee
Exhibit 1.1
 has the meaning given such term in Section 6.7(b).
Storm Subsea Proposal
 means the agreement to be executed and delivered by Storm and the Venture Entities at or prior to Closing with terms consistent with the term sheet attached as .
Storm Supply Agreement
Exhibit 7.7(d)
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.5(b).
Storm Target Net Working Capital
 means the assets to be transferred, whether directly or pursuant to the transfer of an entity, by Storm and its Affiliates to the Venture Entities and their subsidiaries pursuant to Section 2.1, subject to Section 2.3.
Storm Transferred Assets
 
 
 
-16-
 
 
 has the meaning given such term in the term sheet attached as .
Storm Transferred Employees
Exhibit 1.1
means the Intellectual Property that (i) is owned by Storm or its Affiliates or to which Storm or its Affiliates otherwise have rights, (ii) is used or held for use primarily in connection with or otherwise primarily related to the Storm Subsea Business, and (iii) exists as of the Closing Date, including the Storm Proprietary Rights that are identified in of the Storm Disclosure Letter.
Storm Transferred IP
 
Section 4.18(a)
 means, subject to the indemnification obligations of Storm and its Affiliates under Article 8, (i) the liabilities of Storm and its Affiliates to be assumed by the Venture Entities and their respective subsidiaries pursuant to Section 2.1, (ii) those held by any entity to be transferred by Storm and its Affiliates to the Venture Entities pursuant to Section 2.1, and (iii) the obligations of Storm and its Affiliates under any Contracts included as Storm Transferred Assets; , that the term Storm Transferred Liabilities shall not include any Excluded Liabilities.
Storm Transferred Liabilities
provided
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.8.
Storm Transferred Subsidiaries Interests
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.1.
Storm Transferred Subsidiary
 has the meaning given such term in Section 4.1.
Storm Transferring Affiliates
 has the meaning given to such term in the preamble.
Storm US
 means (a) the development (including research), design, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sale and servicing of products and services, installed or provided on  the seabed or between the seabed and any platform or vessel on the surface, and which are associated with the control, handling, delivery, pumping, compression and processing of hydrocarbons and associated well fluids between the seabed and submerged processing and production facilities; (b) the provision, marketing and sale of consulting services aimed at assisting the customer to minimize any impediments associated with flow lines and umbilicals or other equipment on the seabed or between the seabed and the surface and to improve reservoir recovery rates; (c) the provision, marketing, sale and servicing of products and services that allow for the intervention of subsea wells that cannot be accessed at surface, including the use and procurement of vessels to assist in such intervention services; and (d) (i) the provision, marketing, sale and servicing of products and services associated with measuring (excluding wellbore measurements) certain characteristics and parameters of said hydrocarbons, associated well fluids and the environment and (ii) subsea metering and surveillance. For sake of clarity,  excludes all business lines, products and services that comprise the Non-Transferred Storm Assets and the Non-Transferred Cyclone Assets, as the case may be.
Subsea Business
Subsea Business
 means Intellectual Property not related to the Subsea Business that is contributed or licensed to the Venture Entities by either party to support the development of the business of the Venture Entities or as part of an integrated packaged offering to a customer of the Venture Entities.
Supporting IP
 
 
 
-17-
 
 
 means all income, gross receipts, license, payroll, employment, excise, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, windfall profits, environmental (including taxes under Section 59A of the Code), customs duties, capital stock, franchise, profits, withholding, social security (or similar), unemployment, disability, real property, personal property, sales, use, transfer, registration, value added, alternative or add-on minimum, estimated or other taxes of any kind whatsoever, imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, penalties or other additions thereto.
Taxes
 has the meaning given such term in Section 10.2(a).
Termination Fee
 means this Agreement; the Transfer Documents; the Charter Documents for the Venture Entities; the Shareholders Agreement; the Shared Services Agreement; the Transition Services Agreement; the Nominee and Holdback Agreement; the leases, subleases and licenses entered into pursuant to Section 2.3(c); the Cyclone Supply Agreement; the Storm Supply Agreement; and the Employee Matters Agreement.
Transaction Documents
 has the meaning given such term in Section 3.2.
Transfer Documents
 means all stock transfer, real property transfer, documentary, sales, use, VAT, registration and other similar Taxes and related fees, other than VAT paid or reimbursed by the Venture Entities pursuant to Section 7.3(c).
Transfer Taxes
 means, collectively, the Cyclone Transferred Assets and the Storm Transferred Assets.
Transferred Assets
means, depending on usage, either the Cyclone Transferred IP or the Storm Transferred IP or both.
Transferred IP
 
 means, collectively, the Cyclone Transferred Liabilities and the Storm Transferred Liabilities.
Transferred Liabilities
 means the agreement to be executed and delivered by the parties and the Venture Entities at or prior to Closing with terms consistent with the term sheet attached as .
Transition Services Agreement
Exhibit 7.7(b)
 means the UK Bribery Act 2010, as amended.
UK Bribery Act
 means the United States of America.
U.S.
 means US EmployCo and its Affiliates (other than Cyclone, Storm and their respective Non-Venture Entity Affiliates) and their respective officers, directors, managers and employees.
US EmployCo Indemnified Persons
 
 
 
-18-
 
 
 means the corporation to be set up and owned 60% by Cyclone or an Affiliate of Cyclone and 40% by Storm US or an Affiliate of Storm US to serve as the employer of the employees of US Venture Entity and its U.S. Affiliates.
US EmployCo
 means the equity interest in US Venture Entity (i) that shall be acquired by Storm US pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(ii) and (ii) the amount of which shall be determined pursuant to the procedures described in Section 6.10.
US Exchanged Interest
 means the cash (i) that shall be used by Storm US to acquire an equity ownership interest in US Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(iii) and (ii) the amount of which shall be determined pursuant to the procedures described in Section 6.10.
US Purchase Price
 has the meaning given such term in the preamble to this Agreement.
US Venture Entity
 means value added taxes.
VAT
 means the overall business relationship constituting a venture contemplated by this Agreement and includes all of the Venture Entities.
Venture
 means, collectively, US Venture Entity, Non-U.S. Venture Entity and, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise or unless otherwise provided, their respective subsidiaries.
Venture Entities
 means the Venture Entities and their respective Affiliates (other than Cyclone, Storm and their respective non-Venture Entity Affiliates) and their respective officers, directors, managers and employees.
Venture Entity Indemnified Persons
 means any Environmental Liabilities arising or resulting from (a) any violation of Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements by any Venture Entities or their respective Affiliates in connection with the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business, the Cyclone Transferred Assets, the Storm Subsea Business or the Storm Transferred Assets on or after the Closing Date; (b) any Release or presence of Hazardous Substances on, at, in, under or from any Cyclone Owned Real Property, Cyclone Leased Real Property, Storm Owned Real Property or Storm Leased Real Property to the extent such Release occurred or such presence first existed on or after the Closing Date; or (c) any disposal or arrangement for disposal of Hazardous Substances on or after the Closing Date by any Venture Entities or their respective Affiliates at any third-party landfill or other third-party disposal location in connection with the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business, the Cyclone Transferred Assets, the Storm Subsea Business or the Storm Transferred Assets.
Venture Environmental Liabilities
 means each Venture Entity, US EmployCo and their respective controlled Affiliates.
Venture Group
 
 
 
-19-
 
 
 means any Cyclone Owner or any Storm Owner, and  means, with respect to any Venture Entity, both the Cyclone Owner and the Storm Owner for such entity.
Venture Owner
Venture Owners
 means Cyclone or Storm, as appropriate.
Venture Owner Parent
1.2           .  Words used in this Agreement, regardless of the number or gender specifically used, shall be deemed and construed to include any other number, singular or plural, and any other gender, masculine, feminine or neuter, as the context shall require. The parties have participated jointly in negotiating and drafting this Agreement. In the event that an ambiguity or a question of intent or interpretation arises, this Agreement shall be construed as if drafted jointly by the parties, and no presumption or burden of proof shall arise favoring or disfavoring any party by virtue of the authorship of any provision of this Agreement.
Construction
1.3           .  As used in this Agreement, unless expressly stated otherwise, references to (a)  or  mean including, without limitation, (b) a  mean Cyclone, Storm, Storm US or Storm BV, and to the  mean all of them, (c)  means calendar days unless otherwise indicated, (d) references to  shall mean U.S. dollars; (e) references to  or  include in electronic form; (f)  means (i) with respect to Cyclone, the actual knowledge after reasonable inquiry of the individuals set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter and (ii) with respect to Storm, the actual knowledge after reasonable inquiry of the individuals set forth in of the Storm Disclosure Letter;, that the type of inquiry that is customarily made in the ordinary course for public reporting purposes by such individuals shall constitute reasonable inquiry as used in this clause (f); (g) provisions shall apply, when appropriate, to successive events and transactions; and (h) the words  and  are used interchangeably and have the same meaning. Unless otherwise specified, all references in this Agreement to Articles, Sections, and Exhibits are deemed references to the corresponding Articles, Sections, and Exhibits in, to and of this Agreement, each of such Exhibits being made a part hereof for all purposes.
References
include
including
party
parties
days
$
written
in writing
knowledge
Section 1.3
Section 1.3
provided
shall
will
1.4           .  The headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
1.5           .  Whenever a calculation is called for in any Transaction Document, each calculation or part of a calculation shall be rounded to six decimal places. Percentages shall be converted to a decimal and that decimal shall be rounded to six decimal places. All interest calculations shall be done on a bond-equivalent basis consisting of twelve 30-day months.
Calculations
ARTICLE 2.
ORGANIZATION OF VENTURE ENTITIES
2.1           .  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Venture Entities will be organized as follows:
Transfers to Venture Entities
(a)           .  Prior to Closing, each party shall engage in the reorganization steps set forth in the Pre-Closing Reorganization Plans adopted by each party in accordance with Section 6.9.
Reorganizations
 
 
 
-20-
 
 
(b)           .  (i) At or prior to the Closing, Cyclone or a subsidiary thereof will form or cause to be formed US Venture Entity and shall transfer or cause to be transferred to US Venture Entity or one of its Affiliates the assets, shares and other equity interests included in clauses (A) and (B) and, in exchange, US Venture Entity shall issue 100% of its equity ownership interests and US Venture Entity or one of its Affiliates shall assume the liabilities included in clause (C):
US Venture Entity
(A)           all of the shares or other equity interests of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries that conduct the Cyclone Subsea Business in the U.S., after giving effect to Cyclones Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan;
(B)           all of the assets of Cyclone and its Affiliates that are used or held for use primarily in or are primarily related to the Cyclone Subsea Business in the U.S. (other than any assets held by the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries and transferred pursuant to clause (A) or Section 2.1(c)(i)(A)); and
(C)           the liabilities (other than Excluded Liabilities) of Cyclone and its Affiliates to the extent attributable or related to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Cyclone Transferred Assets in the U.S., whether arising prior to, on or after the Closing Date (and whether accrued, contingent, unasserted or otherwise) (other than any liabilities held by the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries and transferred pursuant to clause (A) or Section 2.1(c)(i)(A)).
(ii)           At the Closing, in exchange for the US Exchanged Interest,Storm US shall transfer or cause to be transferred to US Venture Entity or one of its Affiliates the assets, shares and other equity interests included in clauses (A) and (B) and US Venture Entity or one of its Affiliates shall assume the liabilities included in clause (C):
 
(A)           all of the shares or other equity interests of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries that conduct the Storm Subsea Business in the U.S., after giving effect to Storms Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan;
(B)           all of the assets of Storm US and its Affiliates that are used or held for use primarily in or are primarily related to the Storm Subsea Business in the U.S. (other than any assets held by the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries and transferred pursuant to clause (A) or Section 2.1(c)(ii)(A)); and
(C)           the liabilities (other than Excluded Liabilities) of Storm US and its Affiliates to the extent attributable or related to the Storm Subsea Business or the Storm Transferred Assets in the U.S., whether arising prior to, on or after the Closing Date (and whether accrued, contingent, unasserted or otherwise) (other than any liabilities held by the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries and transferred pursuant to clause (A) or Section 2.1(c)(ii)(A)).
 
 
 
-21-
 
 
(iii)           Immediately following the transfers by Storm US described in Section 2.1(b)(ii), Storm US or one of its U.S. Affiliates shall purchase for the US Purchase Price from Cyclone a portion of Cyclones resulting equity ownership interest in US Venture Entity such that following such purchase, Storm US will hold a 40% equity ownership interest in US Venture Entity.
(c)           . Subject to the specific mechanics described in the Pre-Closing Reorganization Plans adopted by each party in accordance with Section 6.9: (i) At or prior to the Closing, Cyclone will form or cause to be formed Non-U.S. Venture Entity and shall transfer or cause to be transferred to Non-U.S. Venture Entity or one of its Affiliates the assets, shares and other equity interests included in clauses (A) and (B) and, in exchange, Non-U.S. Venture Entity shall issue 100% of its equity ownership interests and Non-U.S. Venture Entity or one of its Affiliates shall assume the liabilities included in clause (C):
Non-U.S. Venture Entity
(A)           all of the shares or other equity interests of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries that conduct the Cyclone Subsea Business outside the U.S., after giving effect to Cyclones Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan;
(B)           all of the assets of Cyclone and its Affiliates that are used or held for use primarily in or primarily related to the Cyclone Subsea Business outside the U.S. (other than any assets held by the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries and transferred pursuant to clause (A) or Section 2.1(b)(i)(A)); and
(C)           the liabilities (other than Excluded Liabilities) of Cyclone and its Affiliates to the extent attributable or related to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Cyclone Transferred Assets outside the U.S., whether arising prior to, on or after the Closing Date (and whether accrued, contingent, unasserted or otherwise) (other than any liabilities held by the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries and transferred pursuant to clause (A) or Section 2.1(b)(i)(A)).
(ii)           At the Closing, in exchange for the Non-U.S. Exchanged Interest, Storm BV shall transfer or cause to be transferred to Non-U.S. Venture Entity or one of its Affiliates the assets, shares and other equity interests included in clauses (A) and (B) and Non-U.S. Venture Entity or one of its Affiliates shall assume the liabilities included in clause (C):
(A)           all of the shares or other equity interests of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries that conduct the Storm Subsea Business outside the U.S., after giving effect to Storms Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan;
 
 
 
-22-
 
 
(B)           all of the assets of Storm BV and its Affiliates that are used or held for use primarily in or primarily related to the Storm Subsea Business outside the U.S. (other than any assets held by the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries and transferred pursuant to clause (A) or Section 2.1(b)(iii)(A)); and
(C)           the liabilities (other than Excluded Liabilities) of Storm BV and its Affiliates to the extent attributable or related to the Storm Subsea Business or the Storm Transferred Assets outside the U.S., whether arising prior to, on or after the Closing Date (and whether accrued, contingent, unasserted or otherwise) (other than any liabilities held by the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries and transferred pursuant to clause (A) or Section 2.1(b)(iii)(A)).
(iii)           Immediately following the transfers by Storm BV described in Section 2.1(c)(ii), Storm BV or one of its non-U.S. Affiliates shall purchase for the Non-U.S. Purchase Price from Cyclone or one of its Affiliates a portion of Cyclones resulting equity ownership interest in Non-U.S. Venture Entity such that following such purchase, Storm BV will hold a 40% equity ownership interest in Non-U.S. Venture Entity.
2.2           .  Except as provided in Section 2.3 and subject to Section 7.15, Cyclone and Storm agree that the Cyclone Transferred Assets and the Storm Transferred Assets shall include all of the following assets of Cyclone and its Affiliates or Storm and its Affiliates used or held for use primarily in connection with or otherwise primarily related to the Cyclone Subsea Business and the Storm Subsea Business as the same shall exist as of the Closing Date:
Transferred Assets
(a)           .  All owned real property together with (i) all rights, privileges, easements, rights of way, licenses, hereditaments, servitudes, use rights and other appurtenances relating thereto; (ii) all right, title and interest in and to any land lying in the bed of any street, road or highway, existing or proposed, in front of or adjoining any of such real property, any award made or to be made with respect to any of such real property by reason of change of grade or the closing of any street, road or highway and all strips and gores of real property abutting or adjoining any of such real property; and (iii) all buildings, structures, improvements, paved parking areas, fixtures and all other appurtenances thereto located on such real property.
Real Property Owned
(b)           . All leases under which Cyclone or Storm or an Affiliate thereof is the lessee of real property.
Real Property Leases
(c)           . All leases under which Cyclone or Storm or an Affiliate thereof is the lessor of any real property.
Leases of Real Property to Third Parties
(d)           . All additional real property rights, privileges, easements, rights of way, licenses, hereditaments, servitudes, use rights and appurtenances relating to the Cyclone Subsea Business and the Storm Subsea Business.
Other Real Property Rights
 
 
 
-23-
 
 
(e)           . All Personal Property and interests in Personal Property owned.
Personal Property Owned
(f)            . All leases of Personal Property entered into by Cyclone, Storm or any of their respective Affiliates (as lessees), including master leases pertaining to vehicles, vessels and equipment, which in any case are not fully performed as of the Closing Date.
Personal Property Leased
(g)           . All raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods, purchased goods, merchandise held for resale, materials and supplies, including in-transit inventories, spare parts and stores.
Inventory
(h)           . All Contracts and portions of Contracts that have continuing rights or obligations (whether or not contingent in nature) as of the Closing Date.
Contracts
(i)            . All Governmental Approvals.
Governmental Approvals
(j)            . All rights, Claims, credits or rights of set-off against third parties, whether liquidated or unliquidated, fixed or contingent, including rights of indemnification, hold harmless agreements, covenants not to prosecute and other agreements, in each case other than refunds and credits for Taxes.
Claims Against Third Parties
(k)           . All rights under all covenants and warranties to the extent related to the Cyclone Transferred Assets, the Storm Transferred Assets or the operation or conduct of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, express or implied (including title warranties and manufacturers, suppliers and contractors warranties).
Warranties
(l)            . Subject to Section 2.3(b), all right, title and interest in all Intellectual Property.
Intellectual Property
(m)          . Subject to Section 2.3(b), the process control software and computer applications software, owned or licensed, whether for general business usage (, accounting, word processing, graphics and spreadsheet analysis) or specific, unique-to-the-business usage (, order processing, manufacturing, process control and shipping), the computer operating, security or programming software, owned or licensed, and the computer hardware, owned or leased, including in each case the related Contracts.
Information Technology
e.g.
e.g.
(n)           . The net working capital and cash contributions contemplated in Section 3.3.
Net Working Capital and Cash
(o)           . All goodwill and going concern value incident thereto.
Goodwill
2.3           .  Notwithstanding any provisions of Sections 2.1 or 2.2 to the contrary, the assets of Cyclone and its Affiliates (the ) and of Storm and its Affiliates (the ), in each case that are not used or held for use primarily in and are not primarily related to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, respectively, including the following assets, shall be retained by the respective parties and not be transferred to the Venture Entities:
Non-Transferred Assets
Non-Transferred Cyclone Assets
Non-Transferred Storm Assets
 
 
 
-24-
 
 
(a)           The assets of Cyclone, Storm and their respective Affiliates that are set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter and of the Storm Disclosure Letter;
Section 2.3
Section 2.3
(b)           The Cyclone Retained IP and the Storm Retained IP, including the Intellectual Property identified in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter or of the Storm Disclosure Letter, as applicable;
Section 9.6
Section  9.7
(c)           All assets being leased, subleased or licensed to the Venture Entities or one of its subsidiaries by Cyclone, Storm or their respective subsidiaries, that are set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter or of the Storm Disclosure Letter, as applicable, on the terms specified therein;
Section 2.3(c)
Section 2.3(c)
(d)           All insurance policies and contracts (including those issued by captive insurance companies) maintained by Cyclone, Storm or their respective Affiliates and all rights, Claims and causes of action under such insurance policies and contracts;
(e)           The corporate seal, corporate minute books and stock books or other records having to do with the corporate organization of Cyclone, Storm and their respective Affiliates, except for the Venture Entities; and
(f)            Except as provided in Section 2.2(n), cash.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if pre-Closing cash is retained by a Venture Entity due to legal, regulatory or tax considerations, then the Venture Entities and the party that owned such pre-Closing cash shall cooperate in good faith to enter into arrangements to transfer or otherwise provide the net economic benefit (after any Taxes or costs of transferring such cash or providing such benefit) of such pre-Closing cash to such party.
2.4           .  Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 2.1 to the contrary, the following liabilities () shall be retained by the respective parties, irrespective of whether any such liability is a liability of a Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary or a Storm Transferred Subsidiary, and shall not be transferred to, nor assumed by, the Venture Entities:
Excluded Liabilities
Excluded Liabilities
(a)           liabilities to the extent attributable to the Non-Transferred Cyclone Businesses and to the Non-Transferred Storm Businesses;
(b)           to the extent arising from or attributable to any condition, event, circumstance, activity, practice, incident, action or omission occurring prior to the Closing Date, liabilities (other than Environmental Liabilities) of Cyclone, Storm and their respective Affiliates attributable to (i) violations or alleged violations of the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or any Applicable Law related to anti-corruption or any violation or alleged violation of criminal law, including fines, civil or criminal penalties, damages and profit disgorgement and the costs of any investigations related thereto, (ii) noncompliance or alleged noncompliance with, or violations or alleged violations of, Applicable Laws with respect to import/export control (other than, for the avoidance of doubt, international trade and customs), trade sanctions, embargoes and money laundering or (iii) fines, civil or criminal penalties with respect to, and interest accruing on, any customs charges to the extent related to the misclassification of any product;
 
 
 
-25-
 
 
(c)           Cyclone Pre-Closing Environmental Liabilities and Storm Pre-Closing Environmental Liabilities;
(d)           liabilities associated with the incident involving the fire and explosion that occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig on or about April 20, 2010;
Deepwater Horizon
(e)           any Indebtedness for borrowed money (including Indebtedness owed to Cyclone or Storm or any of their respective Affiliates (other than Exempt Intercompany Debt)); and
(f)            liabilities of Cyclone, Storm and their respective Affiliates that are primarily related to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business and set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter and of the Storm Disclosure Letter.
Section 2.4
Section 2.4
2.5           .  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article 2, the Employee Matters Agreement shall govern the retention by Cyclone, Storm and their respective subsidiaries or the transfer to the Venture Entities of assets and liabilities relating to Employee Benefit Plans or current and former employees of the Cyclone Subsea Business and the Storm Subsea Business.
Assets and Liabilities Relating to Employees
ARTICLE 3.
THE CLOSING
3.1           .  At the Closing and upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the appropriate Venture Owners shall execute and deliver, or cause to be executed and delivered, any amendments to the Charter Documents of the respective Venture Entities necessary to reflect the ownership described in Section 2.1 and such other amendments as shall be mutually agreed on by Cyclone and Storm, and shall file or cause to be filed with the necessary Governmental Authorities any documents necessary to be filed with such Governmental Authorities to reflect those amendments as soon as practicable and shall cause the Venture Entities to deliver to the appropriate entities identified in the Pre-Closing Reorganization Plans certificates or other evidence reflecting those entities ownership interest in each Venture Entity. Prior to the Closing, Cyclone and Storm shall agree on the form of limited liability company agreement of US Venture Entity and the Charter Documents of Non-U.S. Venture Entity to be executed at Closing.  The Venture Entity Charter Documents, as so amended, shall be consistent in all respects with the terms and conditions of the Shareholders Agreement.
Execution of the Amended Venture Entity Charter Documents
 
 
 
-26-
 
 
3.2           .  At the Closing, the appropriate entities shall execute and deliver, effective as of the Closing Date, transfer documents in forms to be mutually agreed upon by Storm and Cyclone for each country in which assets will be transferred to effect the conveyances described in Section 2.1 (the ). Any conflicts between the Transfer Documents and this Agreement shall be resolved in favor of this Agreement.
Execution of Transfer Documents
Transfer Documents
3.3           .
Contribution of Net Working Capital
(a)           Upon the Closing, as contemplated by Section 2.1, Cyclone shall contribute or cause its subsidiaries to contribute, whether directly or by virtue of a transfer of an entity, to the applicable Venture Entity all current assets (other than cash, income Tax assets, and deferred Tax assets) and current liabilities (other than income Tax liabilities, deferred Tax liabilities, and Indebtedness for borrowed money, including Indebtedness owed to Cyclone or any its Affiliates (other than Exempt Intercompany Debt)) attributable to the Cyclone Subsea Business. The amount of such current assets net of such current liabilities, in each case as determined in accordance with the accounting policies and practices followed in the preparation of the Cyclone Financial Information is referred to as the .
Cyclone Net Working Capital
(b)           Upon the Closing, as contemplated by Section 2.1, Storm shall contribute or cause its subsidiaries to contribute, whether directly or by virtue of a transfer of an entity, to the applicable Venture Entity all current assets (other than cash, income Tax assets, and deferred Tax assets) and current liabilities (other than income Tax liabilities, deferred Tax liabilities, and Indebtedness for borrowed money, including Indebtedness owed to Storm or any its Affiliates (other than Exempt Intercompany Debt)) attributable to the Storm Subsea Business. The amount of such current assets net of such current liabilities, in each case as determined in accordance with the accounting policies and practices followed in the preparation of the Storm Financial Information is referred to as .
Storm Net Working Capital
(c)           Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, each of Cyclone and Storm represents and warrants that between January 1, 2012 and the date of this Agreement, it did not take and its Affiliates did not take, and between the date of this Agreement and the Closing each of Cyclone and Storm agrees it will not take, and will cause its Affiliates not to take, any action or omit to take any action or to deviate in any manner from its ordinary and customary historical working capital practices if the effect of such action or failure to take such action was or is to reduce the amount of net working capital included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets or the Storm Transferred Assets, as the case may be, including (i) altering customary inventory levels, (ii) delaying payment of payables and Taxes, (iii) accelerating collection of receivables, or (iv) altering capital spending plans.
(d)           At least 45 days prior to Closing, (i) Cyclone shall deliver to Storm a cash flow projection for the Cyclone Subsea Business for the 12 months following the month in which the Closing is anticipated to occur, and (ii) Storm shall deliver to Cyclone a cash flow projection for the Storm Subsea Business for the 12 months following the month in which the Closing is anticipated to occur.  Such cash flow projections shall take into account, among other things, anticipated customer projects, capital projects, maintenance and repair expenditures and operating costs.  At the Closing, Cyclone and Storm shall contribute or cause their respective subsidiaries to contribute to the appropriate Venture Entity an amount of cash, which amount shall be agreed upon between the Venture Owner Parents at least 15 days prior to the Closing taking into account the cash flow projections described above; , , that neither Cyclone and its subsidiaries nor Storm and its subsidiaries shall be required on a collective basis under this Section 3.3(d) to contribute aggregate cash in excess of $50,000,000.  The contribution of cash to each Venture Entity shall paid by Cyclone and its subsidiaries and by Storm and its subsidiaries in accordance with their respective Percentage Interests.  Any cash contributed to a Venture Entity pursuant to this Section 3.3(d) must be freely accessible by the Venture Entity and capable of being transferred out of the jurisdiction in which it is located without more than customary cost or delay.
provided
however
 
 
 
-27-
 
 
3.4           .
[Reserved]
3.5           .
Adjusting Payments
(a)           If the Cyclone Net Working Capital transferred to US Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(i) and to Non-U.S. Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(i) (as estimated in good faith by Cyclone) is less than $345 million (the ), Cyclone or its subsidiaries shall contribute additional cash in the amount of the deficiency to the appropriate Venture Entity.
Cyclone Target Net Working Capital
(b)           If the Storm Net Working Capital transferred to US Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(ii) and to Non-U.S. Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(ii) (as estimated in good faith by Storm) is less than $60 million (the ), Storm or its subsidiaries shall contribute additional cash in the amount of the deficiency to the appropriate Venture Entity.
Storm Target Net Working Capital
(c)The payments pursuant to this Section 3.5 shall be made at the Closing and shall be adjusted after the Closing in the manner prescribed by Section 3.9(b).
   
3.6           .
Closing Statements; Review
(a)           .  As promptly as practicable, but in no event more than 90 days after the Closing Date, Cyclone and Storm shall prepare and deliver to the other a statement (each, a ) which shall reflect the Cyclone Net Working Capital and the Storm Net Working Capital, respectively, as of the Closing Date. The Closing Statements shall be prepared in accordance with the accounting policies and practices followed in the preparation of the Cyclone Financial Information and the Storm Financial Information, as applicable. Cyclone, Storm, the Venture Entities and their respective independent public accountants shall cooperate with each other in the preparation of the Closing Statements.
Closing Statements
Closing Statement
(b)           .  Each party shall have a period of 90 days after the delivery to it of the Closing Statement of the other party to review and make any objections to that report that such party may have in writing to the other party. Cyclone and Storm shall each have the right to review the related work papers and to conduct due diligence with respect to each Closing Statement and the underlying assets and liabilities and to propose adjustments to each Closing Statement in accordance with this Section 3.6(b). The parties agree to work together in good faith to finalize the Closing Statement as promptly as practicable. If no written objections to either Closing Statement are delivered to any party within such 90-day period, the Closing Statements shall be deemed to be accepted and approved by the parties, and the Second Closing, if necessary, shall be held in accordance with Section 3.9(b). If written objections of any party to a Closing Statement are delivered to any other party within such 90-day period, then the parties shall attempt to resolve the matter or matters in dispute and, if successful, the Second Closing shall take place at such time as the parties may mutually agree. Any objecting party shall quantify its objections to the extent reasonably practicable in all written objections delivered to any other party with respect to the applicable Closing Statement. If such disputes cannot be resolved by the parties within 15 days after the delivery of the objections, then the specific matters in dispute shall be submitted to a mutually selected nationally recognized independent accounting firm (other than Cyclones or Storms then-current independent accounting firm) (the ), which firm shall render its opinion as to the calculation of the Cyclone Net Working Capital and the Storm Net Working Capital within 60 days. Based on that opinion, the Independent Accountants shall then send to each of the parties a written determination of the Cyclone Net Working Capital and the Storm Net Working Capital and a written determination of any adjustments to the applicable Closing Statement based upon such opinion, whereupon the confirmed or revised Closing Statement(s) shall be final and binding upon the parties. The Second Closing shall not occur until each of the parties shall have received the documents prepared by the Independent Accountants evidencing that opinion. All costs, fees and expenses charged or incurred by the Independent Accountants shall be borne equally by Cyclone and Storm.
Review of Closing Statements
Independent Accountants
 
 
 
-28-
 
 
3.7           .  At least 10 days prior to Closing, Cyclone shall provide to Storm any updates to the Cyclone Disclosure Letter, and Storm shall provide to Cyclone any updates to the Storm Disclosure Letter, in each case necessary to make its representations and warranties herein true and accurate; , that such updates shall be for informational purposes only and shall not change the liabilities or obligations of the other parties hereunder unless specifically agreed to in writing by Cyclone with respect to Storms changes and Storm with respect to Cyclones changes, and Cyclone or Storm may reject the transfer of any additional liabilities included in such updates of the other party to the Venture Entities or require that cash be paid to offset the liability.
Disclosure Letter Updates
provided, however
3.8           .  At Closing, the parties shall cause each Venture Entity and US EmployCo to execute and deliver to Cyclone and Storm a supplement to this Agreement substantially in the form of , pursuant to which that Venture Entity and US EmployCo shall agree to assume, perform and comply with the obligations and conditions hereunder contemplated to be assumed, performed or complied with by it.
Venture Entity Supplements
Exhibit 3.8
3.9           .
Closing
and Second Closing
(a)           .  Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement, the Closing shall take place (i) with respect to the assets and liabilities to be transferred to US Venture Entity, at the offices of Baker Botts L.L.P., 910 Louisiana Street, Houston, Texas 77002, and (ii) with respect to the assets and liabilities to be transferred to Non-U.S. Venture Entity, at such location outside of the U.S. as the parties may mutually agree, in each case within five businessdays of the satisfaction or waiver of all of the conditions to Closing set forth below at such time as the parties may mutually agree (the ). Cyclone shall designate two entities, one U.S. and one non-U.S., to receive as nominee, to the extent practicable, all payments due to Cyclone on the Closing Date. US Venture Entity and Non-U.S. Venture Entity also shall each designate an entity to receive as nominee, to the extent practicable, all payments due to them on the Closing Date.
Closing
 
Closing Date
 
 
 
-29-
 
 
(b)           .  A second closing shall take place (i) with respect to payments relating to US Venture Entity, at the offices of Baker Botts L.L.P., 910 Louisiana Street, Houston, Texas 77002, and (ii) with respect to payments relating to Non-U.S. Venture Entity, at such location outside of the U.S. as the parties may mutually agree, in each case as soon as practicable after the Closing and in accordance with Section 3.6, at such time as the parties may mutually agree, but in no event later than five businessdays after the determination of Cyclone Working Capital and Storm Working Capital pursuant to Section 3.6 (the ).  US Venture Entity and Non-U.S. Venture Entity shall each designate an entity to receive as nominee, to the extent practicable, all payments due to them under this Section 3.9(b). If the Cyclone Net Working Capital or the Storm Net Working Capital reflected on the applicable Closing Statement as finalized pursuant to Section 3.6 is less than the Cyclone Target Net Working Capital or the Storm Target Net Working Capital, respectively, the parties shall recalculate the adjusting payments, if any, made pursuant to Section 3.5 and (x) if Cyclone and its subsidiaries made an adjusting payment pursuant to Section 3.5(a) or Storm and its subsidiaries made an adjusting payment pursuant to Section 3.5(b) that was too large, the appropriate Venture Entity shall refund the overage, plus interest on such amount at a rate of LIBOR plus 2% per annum from the Closing Date to the date of payment, to the payor at the Second Closing and (y) if Cyclone and its subsidiaries made an adjusting payment pursuant to Section 3.5(a) or Storm and its subsidiaries made an adjusting payment pursuant to Section 3.5(b) that was too small or made no adjusting payment, Cyclone and its subsidiaries or Storm and its subsidiaries, as applicable, shall contribute additional cash, plus interest on such amount at a rate of LIBOR plus 2% per annum from the Closing Date to the date of payment, to the appropriate Venture Entity to cure such shortfall at the Second Closing.
Second Closing
 
Second Closing
3.10           .  The respective obligations of each party to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment or waiver at or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to Each Partys Closing Obligation
(a)           that no litigation, investigation, inquiry or proceeding is pending or, to each partys knowledge, threatened in or by any court, tribunal, government agency or authority, domestic or foreign, to restrain, enjoin or prohibit consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
(b)           the applicable parties shall have finalized, executed and delivered the following agreements:
 
 
 
-30-
 
 
 
 
(i)             t
he Employee Matters Agreement;
 
(ii)           
the Shareholders Agreement;
 
(iii)          
the Transfer Documents;
 
(iv)           
the Venture Entity and US EmployCo supplements;
 
(v)           
the Shared Services Agreement;
 
(vi)          
the Transition Services Agreement;
 
(vii)         
the Nominee and Holdback Agreement;
 
(viii)         
the leases, subleases or licenses to be entered into pursuant to Section 2.3(c);
 
(ix)           
the Cyclone Supply Agreement;
 
(x)  
   
the Storm Supply Agreement; and
 
(xi)           
any Charter Documents of US Venture Entity and Non-U.S. Venture Entity not already effected as of Closing and any charter amendments referenced in Section 3.1 not already effected as of Closing;
 
(c)           the Governmental Approvals listed in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter and of the Storm Disclosure Letter shall have been obtained or otherwise satisfied; and
Section 3.10(c)
Section 3.10(c)
(d)           in relation to any filing under the EU Merger Regulation, the European Commission shall have issued a decision under the EU Merger Regulation declaring the transactions contemplated under this Agreement compatible with the common market, or, if the European Commission has adopted any decision under Article 9 of the EU Merger Regulation to refer the transactions in part to any Member State of the European Economic Area, the European Commission shall have issued a decision declaring part of the transactions not so referred to that Member State compatible with the common market and every Member State to which part of the transactions has been referred to under Article 9 having issued a decision clearing the transactions.
3.11           .  The obligation of Storm, Storm US and Storm BV to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment or waiver at or prior to the Closing Date of the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Closing Obligation of Storm
, Storm US and Storm BV
(a)           Cyclone shall have performed in all material respects its respective obligations under this Agreement required to be performed by it at or prior to the Closing Date;
 
 
 
-31-
 
 
(b)           the representations and warranties of Cyclone set forth in this Agreement shall have been true and correct in all respects when made and shall be true and correct in all respects at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of the Closing Date (in each case without giving effect to any qualification as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect), except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date (in which case only at and as of such specified date) and except for such failures to be true and correct, individually or in the aggregate, as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Subsea Business of the Venture Entities after the Closing Date, taken as a whole; and
(c)           Storm, Storm US and Storm BV shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, from the President or any Vice President of Cyclone to the effect that the conditions set forth in Sections 3.11(a) and 3.11(b) have been satisfied.
3.12           .  The obligation of Cyclone to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall be subject to the fulfillment or waiver at or prior to the Closing Date of the following additional conditions:
Conditions to the Closing Obligation of Cyclone
(a)           Storm, Storm US and Storm BV shall each have performed in all material respects their respective obligations under this Agreement required to be performed by them at or prior to the Closing Date;
(b)           the representations and warranties of Storm, Storm US and Storm BV set forth in this Agreement shall have been true and correct in all respects when made and shall be true and correct in all respects at and as of the Closing Date as if made at and as of the Closing Date (in each case without giving effect to any qualification as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect), except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date (in which case only at and as of such specified date) and except for such failures to be true and correct, individually or in the aggregate, as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Subsea Business of the Venture Entities after the Closing Date, taken as a whole; and
(c)           Cyclone shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, from the President or any Vice President of Storm to the effect that the conditions set forth in Sections 3.12(a) and 3.12(b) have been satisfied.
ARTICLE 4.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF STORM
, STORM US AND STORM BV
 
Except as set forth in the corresponding Section of the Storm Disclosure Letter, it being understood that any disclosure set forth in the applicable paragraph or Section of the Storm Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to be disclosed for any other Section or paragraph of the Storm Disclosure Letter or for any portion of this Article 4 to which the relevance of such disclosure is reasonably apparent from the context of such disclosure, Storm, Storm US and Storm BV, jointly and severally, represent, warrant and covenant to Cyclone, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date, in which case only at and as of such specified date), that the following are true and correct:
 
 
 
-32-
 
 
4.1           .  Storm is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Curaao and has all requisite corporate power and authority under Applicable Law and its Charter Documents to own or lease and to operate its assets and to conduct or cause to be conducted the Storm Subsea Business as it is now being conducted by Storm. Storm US is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Texas and has all requisite corporate power and authority under Applicable Law and its Charter Documents to own or lease and to operate its assets and to conduct or cause to be conducted the Storm Subsea Business as it is now being conducted by Storm US.  Storm BV is a limited liability company duly formed, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the Netherlands and has all requisite limited liability company power and authority under Applicable Law and its Charter Documents to own or lease and to operate its assets and to conduct or cause to be conducted the Storm Subsea Business as it is now being conducted by Storm BV.  Each subsidiary of Storm that is being contributed or transferred to the Venture Entities as a part of the Storm Subsea Business (each, a ) and each of the other Affiliates of Storm (excluding Storm US and Storm BV) that is transferring or contributing assets or liabilities to the Venture Entities pursuant to this Agreement (collectively, the  and, together with the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries, the ) is, or will be at the Closing Date, a corporation, limited liability company or other entity duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization. Each of the Storm Entities has all requisite corporate or other power and authority to own or lease and to operate its assets and to conduct the Storm Subsea Business now being or to be conducted by it at the time of the Closing. Each of Storm, Storm US and Storm BV and each Storm Entity is, or will be at the Closing Date, duly authorized, qualified or licensed to do business as a foreign corporation or other organization in good standing in each of the jurisdictions in which its right, title or interest in or to any of the Storm Transferred Assets held by it or the Storm Subsea Business conducted by it requires such authorization, qualification or licensing, except where the failure to have such authorization, qualification or licensing has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business. Each of Storm, Storm US and Storm BV has all requisite corporate power and authority under Applicable Law and its Charter Documents to enter into this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party and to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. Each Storm Entity has, or will have at the Closing Date, all corporate or other requisite power and authority under Applicable Law and its Charter Documents to enter into the Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party, to perform its obligations thereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby.
Due Organization, Good Standing and Power
Storm Transferred Subsidiary
Storm Transferring Affiliates
Storm Entities
4.2           .  The execution and delivery by Storm, Storm US and Storm BV of this Agreement, the execution and delivery by Storm, Storm US, Storm BV and each Storm Entity of the other Transaction Documents to which any of them is or will be a party and the consummation by them of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been (in the case of Storm, Storm US and Storm BV), or will be at the Closing Date (in the case of each Storm Entity), duly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate or other action under Applicable Law and the relevant Charter Documents on the part of Storm, Storm US, Storm BV and such Storm Entity, as the case may be, and do not and will not require the approval of the stockholders of Storm. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Storm, Storm US and Storm BV, and at the Closing each of the other Transaction Documents to which Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity is a party will have been duly executed and delivered by Storm, Storm US and Storm BV and such Storm Entity, as the case may be. This Agreement is the legal, valid and binding obligation of Storm, Storm US and Storm BV, enforceable against each in accordance with its terms, except as that enforceability may be (i) limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (ii) subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether that enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). At the Closing, each other Transaction Document to which Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity is a party will be the legal, valid and binding obligation of Storm, Storm US, Storm BV and such Storm Entity, as the case may be, in each case enforceable against Storm, Storm US, Storm BV and such Storm Entity in accordance with its terms, except as that enforceability may be (i) limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (ii) subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether that enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Authorization and Validity of Agreements
 
 
 
-33-
 
 
4.3           .  Neither the execution and delivery by Storm, Storm US or Storm BV of this Agreement nor the execution and delivery by Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity of any other Transaction Document to which Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any such Storm Entity is or will be a party, nor the consummation by them of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, does or will (i) conflict with, or result in the breach of any provision of, the Charter Documents of Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any such Storm Entity, (ii) violate any Applicable Law or any permit, order, award, injunction, decree or judgment of any Governmental Authority applicable to or binding upon Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any such Storm Entity or to which any of their respective properties or assets is subject, (iii) result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the Storm Transferred Assets or (iv) violate, conflict with or result in the breach or termination of, or otherwise give any other Person the right to terminate, or constitute a default, event of default or an event that with notice, lapse of time or both, would constitute a default or event of default under the terms of, any Contract included in the Storm Transferred Assets or by which any of the Storm Transferred Assets is subject, except in the case of (ii), (iii) and (iv) for such violations, Liens, conflicts or breaches as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business.
Lack of Conflicts
4.4           .  Neither the execution and delivery by Storm, Storm US or Storm BV of this Agreement nor the execution and delivery by Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity of any other Transaction Document to which Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any such Storm Entity is or will be a party, nor the consummation by Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any such Storm Entity of the transactions in accordance with the terms hereof or thereof will require any Governmental Approvals, other than (i) possible filings required under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the ), (ii) filings and notifications required under applicable non-U.S. Antitrust Laws (such as the EU Merger Regulation) and (iii) any Governmental Approval the failure of which to obtain or make, would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business. At the Closing, no Governmental Approval or other consent will be required by Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any such Storm Entity is a party, except for such Governmental Approvals or consents as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business.
No Consents
HSR Act
 
 
 
-34-
 
 
4.5           .  Neither Storm nor any of its Affiliates nor any of their officers, directors or employees, on behalf of Storm or such Affiliates, has employed any broker or finder or incurred any other liability for any brokerage fees, commissions or finders fees in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Certain Fees
4.6           .
Financial Information; Absence of Undisclosed Liabilities
(a)           The unaudited financial information set forth in of the Storm Disclosure Letter (the ) has been prepared in accordance with the books and records of the Storm Entities in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with Storms historical accounting policies and practices and is fairly presented in all material respects with respect to the Storm Subsea Business as of the date thereof.
Section 4.6(a)
Storm Financial Information
(b)           None of the Storm Entities has any liabilities with respect to the Storm Subsea Business that are required to be reflected in the balance sheets of the Storm Entities with respect to the Storm Subsea Business in accordance with Storms historical accounting policies and practices, or any off-balance sheet liabilities (as such term is used in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K) that are not reflected or reserved against in the Storm Financial Information, other than liabilities that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business.
4.7           .  Since December 31, 2011, no change in the Storm Subsea Business or the Storm Transferred Assets has occurred which has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business. Since December 31, 2011, Storm and its Affiliates have caused the Storm Subsea Business to be conducted in the ordinary course consistent with its past practice (including with respect to the collection of receivables, payment of payables and other liabilities, advertising activities, bidding and sales practices, equipment maintenance, replacements or upgrades, inventory levels, accounting policies, contributions to or accruals to or in respect of Employee Benefit Plans and off-site and on-site storage, treatment and disposal of Hazardous Substances generated prior to Closing).
No Material Changes
 
 
 
-35-
 
 
4.8           .   of the Storm Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of each Storm Transferred Subsidiary, together with the authorized, issued and outstanding equity capitalization of each entity identified as a Storm Transferred Subsidiary as of the date of this Agreement (the ). As of the Closing Date, Storm shall have made available to Cyclone correct and complete copies of the Charter Documents of each Storm Transferred Subsidiary. Storm is the indirect beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding Storm Transferred Subsidiaries Interests free and clear of all Liens. Except for the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries Interests, there are no shares of capital stock or other equity securities of any of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries issued and outstanding. The Storm Transferred Subsidiaries Interests have not been issued in violation of, and the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries Interests are not subject to, any purchase option, call, right of first refusal, preemptive, subscription or similar rights under any provision of Applicable Law, the Charter Documents of Storm or the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries or any Contract to which Storm or any of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries is a party or is otherwise bound. There are no outstanding warrants, options, rights, phantom stock rights, agreements, convertible or exchangeable securities or other commitments (other than this Agreement) pursuant to which any of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries is or may become obligated to issue, sell, purchase, return or redeem any shares of capital stock or other equity securities. There are no equity securities of any of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries reserved for issuance for any purpose. There are no outstanding bonds, debentures, notes or other securities having the right to vote on any matters on which stockholders or equity owners of any of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries may vote.
Storm Transferred Subsidiaries
Section 4.8
Storm Transferred Subsidiaries Interests
4.9           .
Real Property
(a)           .
Title
(i)            Set forth in of the Storm Disclosure Letter is a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of (1) all owned real property included in the Storm Transferred Assets (the ), (2) all leasehold estates in all leased real property included in the Storm Transferred Assets (the ) and (3) all licenses, occupancy or possessory interests and other real property interests included in the Storm Transferred Assets (the ). of the Storm Disclosure Letter also identifies all Storm Owned Real Property, Storm Leased Real Property and Storm Other Real Property Rights that also are used as of the date hereof by other businesses of Storm or its Affiliates and describes the nature of such use by such other businesses of Storm or its Affiliates, and such use does not interfere with the Storm Subsea Business. No Storm Owned Real Property is leased to any third party, Storm has not granted any third party any license, possessory or occupancy right or other similar right therein other than Permitted Encumbrances, and no Storm Leased Real Property is subleased to any third party. Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or a Storm Entity, as applicable, has (A) good and indefeasible fee title to all Storm Owned Real Property, (B) good and valid title to the leasehold estates in all Storm Leased Real Property and (C) good and valid title to all Storm Other Real Property Rights, in the case of each of clauses (A), (B) and (C) above, free and clear of all Liens, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances.
Section 4.9
Storm Owned Real Property
Storm Leased Real Property
Storm Other Real Property Rights
Section 4.9
 
 
 
-36-
 
 
(ii)           There are no outstanding options, rights of first offer or rights of first refusal to purchase any of such Storm Real Owned Property or any portion of or any interest therein.
(b)           .  Each of the leases relating to the Storm Leased Real Property (each, a ) is in full force and effect and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligations of Storm or its Affiliates that are parties thereto and, to the knowledge of Storm, the other parties thereto, enforceable against Storm and/or such Affiliates and, to the knowledge of Storm, the other parties thereto, in accordance with their respective terms. No Storm Real Property Lease has been amended, modified or  supplemented except as described in of the Storm Disclosure Letter. No party to any Storm Real Property Lease has repudiated any provision thereof, and neither Storm (nor its Affiliates that are parties thereto, as the case may be) nor, to the knowledge of Storm, any other party thereto, is in breach of any of its respective obligations thereunder, and no event has occurred (including the failure to obtain any consent) which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a breach or default thereunder.
Storm Real Property Leases
Storm Real Property Lease
Section 4.9
(c)           .   of the Storm Disclosure Letter sets forth a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of all material owned or leased real property of Storm that is not being included in the Storm Transferred Assets but which is used by the Storm Subsea Business (each, a ).
Joint Use Facilities
Section 4.9(c)
Storm Joint Facility
(d)           .  Except for the Storm Owned Real Property, the Storm Leased Real Property and the Storm Other Real Property Rights, neither Storm nor any Affiliate of Storm owns or leases any real property used or held for use primarily in or related primarily to or necessary for the operation or conduct of the Storm Subsea Business or has any options to acquire any fee interest or leasehold interest in any real property for use primarily in or related primarily to or necessary for the operation or conduct of the Storm Subsea Business.
No Other Realty
(e)           .  There are no pending or, to the knowledge of Storm, threatened condemnation, eminent domain or similar proceedings affecting the Storm Owned Real Property, the Storm Leased Real Property or the Storm Other Real Property Rights. There are no existing public improvements which may reasonably be expected to result in any special assessment against the Storm Owned Real Property.
No Claims
(f)           .  All utility easements, rights of access and other easements and similar rights serving the Storm Owned Real Property are legally enforceable to permit the operation of the Storm Subsea Business in substantially the manner in which the Storm Subsea Business is currently operated. Other than Permitted Encumbrances, there are no encroachments upon the Storm Owned Real Property and no encroachments of any improvements composing the Storm Owned Real Property onto adjacent property, except for such encroachments as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on a particular item of real property. The improvements to the Storm Owned Real Property (and the current uses thereof) do not violate set-back, building or side lines, or any applicable land use covenants, zoning regulations, or similar enforceable restrictions, nor do they encroach on any easements located on the Storm Owned Real Property.
Title Exceptions
 
 
 
-37-
 
 
4.10         .  Storm, Storm US, Storm BV and the Storm Entities have good and valid title to all Personal Property included in the Storm Transferred Assets, in each case, free and clear of all Liens, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances.
Title to Personal Property
4.11           Except as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business, (i) there are no Governmental Approvals necessary for the operation of the Storm Subsea Business which Storm or one of its Affiliates does not possess, (ii) there is no proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of Storm, threatened under which any Governmental Approvals that have been issued or granted to Storm or one of its Affiliates in connection with the operation of the Storm Subsea Business (the ) may be revoked, terminated or suspended, nor, to the knowledge of Storm, are there any reasonable grounds for the revocation, termination or suspension of any Storm Governmental Approvals, and (iii) no third-party consents are required for the assignment or transfer of each of the Storm Governmental Approvals to the Venture Entities.
Storm Governmental Approvals
.
Storm Governmental Approvals
4.12         .
Taxes
(a)           .  Except with respect to Permitted Encumbrances, (i) there are no material Liens for Taxes on any of the Storm Transferred Assets and (ii) no Claim has been made by any Governmental Authority that could give rise to any such Lien.
Liens for Unpaid Taxes
(b)           .  Insofar as concerns the Storm Subsea Business, (i) each of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries has timely filed (taking into account any applicable extensions) with the appropriate taxing authority all material Tax returns required to be filed (except where failure to timely file such returns will not result in material consequences), and each such return was complete and correct in all material respects, (ii) all material Taxes shown on such returns as due and payable or for which any of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries are or could otherwise be held liable, have been duly and timely paid by Storm or a Storm Transferred Subsidiary, (iii) no material Tax audits or other material administrative proceedings or court proceedings are pending with regard to any Taxes for which any of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries may be liable or for which an owner of a Storm Transferred Subsidiary may be liable as a result of such ownership, (iv) none of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries or owners thereof has entered into any agreement with any Governmental Authority extending the period for assessment or collection of any material Taxes, and (v) none of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries is a party to or is bound by or has any obligation under any material Tax-sharing agreement, Tax indemnity agreement or similar agreement or arrangement.
Payment of Taxes
(c)           The representations and warranties in this Section 4.12 and Section 4.19 and Section 4.20 are the exclusive representations and warranties by Storm, Storm US and Storm BV relating to Tax matters.
 
 
 
-38-
 
 
4.13         .   of the Storm Disclosure Letter sets forth a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of all agreements with labor organizations, works councils, unions or associations applicable to the Storm Subsea Business Employees. There are no discrimination complaints, employment-related complaints or any other kind of labor-related disputes against Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity in connection with the Storm Subsea Business pending before or, to the knowledge of Storm, threatened before any Governmental Authority, and, to the knowledge of Storm, no dispute respecting minimum wage or overtime Claims exists. The Storm Subsea Business has not experienced any labor disputes or any work stoppage due to labor disagreements within the past three years. With respect to the Storm Subsea Business: (i) there is no unfair labor practice charge or complaint against Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity actually pending or, to the knowledge of Storm, threatened before the National Labor Relations Board or similar agencies in non-U.S. jurisdictions; (ii) there is no labor strike, slowdown or stoppage actually pending or, to the knowledge of Storm, threatened against or affecting Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity; and (iii) no attempt to organize any of the Storm Subsea Business Employees has resulted in an election within the past three years or, to the knowledge of Storm, is threatened respecting any of the Storm Subsea Business Employees. The Storm Subsea Business is not now, and has not at any time within the past three years been, subject to any collective bargaining agreement, Contract, letter of understanding or other similar arrangement with any labor organizations, works councils, unions or associations.  Storm and each Storm Entity has complied in all material respects with all Applicable Laws pertaining to the employment or termination of employment of their employees, including all Applicable Laws relating to labor relations, equal employment opportunities fair employment practices, prohibited discrimination, applicable information and consultation obligations, occupational safety and health standards, terms and conditions of employment, payment of wages, workers compensation, immigration and visa requirements and other similar employment activities.  Each Storm Subsea Business Employee has been paid all wages, income and any other sum due and owing to such employee by Storm or any Storm Entity. The representations and warranties in this Section 4.13 are the exclusive representations and warranties by Storm, Storm US and Storm BV relating to labor matters.
Employees
Section 4.13
4.14         .  The Storm Transferred Assets are being operated by Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or a Storm Entity, as the case may be, in compliance with all Applicable Laws, except for such noncompliance as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business. Neither Storm nor any of its Affiliates has received any notice from any Governmental Authority that the operations of the Storm Subsea Business are being conducted in violation of any Applicable Law or are the subject of any investigation or review pending or threatened by any Governmental Authority relating to any alleged violation. There is no outstanding order, writ, judgment, stipulation, injunction, decree, determination, award or other order of any Governmental Authority against Storm or its Affiliates that relates to the Storm Transferred Assets.
Compliance with Laws
4.15         .  There are no Claims pending or, to the knowledge of Storm, threatened against Storm or any of its Affiliates before any Governmental Authority (i) seeking to prevent or delay the Closing or (ii) relating to the Storm Subsea Business, except in each case for such Claims as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business.
Legal Proceedings
 
 
 
-39-
 
 
4.16         .
Sufficiency and Condition of the Storm Transferred Assets
(a)           .  The Storm Transferred Assets, together with the Storm Retained IP, the services being provided under the Shared Services Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the assets being leased, subleased or licensed to the Venture Entities pursuant to Section 2.3(c), and the products to be supplied under the Storm Supply Agreement, constitute all property and other rights necessary to operate and conduct the Storm Subsea Business in substantially the same manner as it is currently being operated and conducted.
Sufficiency
(b)           .  Except as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business, all of the Personal Property currently used in the Storm Subsea Business and included in the Storm Transferred Assets (i) is in good operating condition and repair (ordinary wear and tear excepted) and (ii) has been maintained in a manner consistent with industry practice.
Condition
4.17         .   of the Storm Disclosure Letter contains, to the best of Storms knowledge, a correct and complete list as of the date of this Agreement of all the Contracts used or held for use primarily in or related primarily to the operation or conduct of the Storm Subsea Business of the following types that are to be transferred to and assumed (or, in the case of Guarantees, replaced) by the Venture Entities as of the Closing Date and to which Storm or any of its Affiliates is a party or to which any of the Storm Transferred Assets are subject (each, a ):
Material Contracts
Section 4.17
Storm Material Contract
(a)           any indenture, note, loan or credit agreement or other Contract relating to the borrowing of money;
(b)           any Contract which is expected to involve the payment of an amount in excess of $25,000,000 or receipt of an amount in excess of $25,000,000;
(c)           any joint venture, partnership or similar organizational Contract involving a sharing of profits or losses related to all or any portion of the Storm Subsea Business;
(d)           any Contract granting to any Person a right of first refusal or option to purchase or acquire any Storm Transferred Asset or group of Storm Transferred Assets;
(e)           any agency, sponsor, consultant or commission agreement where any Person is providing such services to or on behalf of the Storm Subsea Business;
(f)           any power of attorney (other than powers of attorney given in the ordinary course of business);
 
 
 
-40-
 
 
(g)           any Guarantee (other than any indemnification Contract) with respect to which Storm or any of its Affiliates is the obligor in respect of an obligation that exceeds $25,000,000;
(h)           any indemnification Contract with respect to which Storm or any of its Affiliates is the obligor (including in connection with the sale of assets) that was made outside the ordinary course of business;
(i)            any Contract or consent decree which imposes or could by its terms impose any material restrictions on the Venture Entities with respect to their geographical areas of operations or scope or type of business;
(j)            any Contract involving swaps, futures, derivatives or similar instruments, regardless of value, except such Contracts entered into as a hedging activity in the ordinary course of business consistent with Storms past practice and internal policy guidelines;
(k)            any collective bargaining agreement;
(l)             any Contract pursuant to which a Governmental Authority is providing tax abatements or other similar economic incentives in connection with the Storm Subsea Business;
(m)           any software license agreement which is material to the Storm Subsea Business;
(n)           any material Contract between Storm or one of its Affiliates and another Affiliate relating to the Storm Subsea Business; or
(o)           any Contract not otherwise specified in paragraphs (a) through (n) above that is material to the Storm Subsea Business, taken as a whole.
Storm and its Affiliates have duly performed and complied in all material respects with their respective obligations under each Storm Material Contract. None of Storm or any of its Affiliates has received any notice of termination or default from any other party to such Storm Material Contract. To the knowledge of Storm, no other party to such Storm Material Contract is in default of its obligations thereunder. Each such Storm Material Contract may be assigned to the Venture Entities without the consent of any other party thereto.
4.18         .
Proprietary Rights
(a)            of the Storm Disclosure Letter sets forth, to the best of Storms knowledge, a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of the following items of Intellectual Property used or held for use primarily in or related primarily to and, in each case, material to the operation or conduct of the Storm Subsea Business (collectively, the ): (i) patents and patent applications; (ii) trademarks, trade names and service marks; (iii) registered copyrights; and (iv) documented invention disclosures, in each case whether registered or unregistered, and U.S. or non-U.S.
Section 4.18(a)
Storm Proprietary Rights
 
 
 
-41-
 
 
(b)           (i) Storm or its Affiliates own or possess adequate licenses or other valid rights to use all the Storm Proprietary Rights; (ii) the Storm Proprietary Rights included in the Storm Transferred Assets, together with the Storm Retained IP, constitute, to the best of Storms knowledge, all such rights necessary to conduct the Storm Subsea Business in substantially the same manner as it is presently being conducted; (iii) the validity of the Storm Proprietary Rights and the rights therein of Storm or any of its Affiliates have not been questioned in any litigation to which Storm or any of its Affiliates is a party, nor, to the knowledge of Storm, is any such litigation threatened; (iv) to the knowledge of Storm, the conduct of the Storm Subsea Business does not conflict with any Intellectual Property of others; and (v) the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not conflict with, alter or impair any Storm Proprietary Rights.
(c)           To Storms knowledge, no use of any Storm Proprietary Rights has heretofore been, or is now being, made by any Person other than Storm and its Affiliates, and no infringement of any Storm Proprietary Rights has occurred or is continuing. No director or officer of Storm has any ownership interest in any of the Storm Proprietary Rights.
4.19         .
Employee Benefit Matters
(a)           .  Storm has furnished to Cyclone summaries of each Storm Benefit Plan and will provide correct and complete copies of the following items relating to each Storm Benefit Plan by February 1, 2013: (i) the governing plan documents, including all amendments thereto; (ii) the most recent summary plan description and summary of material modifications; (iii) the most recent Form 5500 Annual Report filed with the IRS, together with attachments thereto or similar reports filed in non-U.S. jurisdictions; and (iv) if applicable, the most recent actuarial report.
Copies of Documents
(b)           .  Each Storm Benefit Plan that is a Pension Benefit Plan has satisfied the minimum funding standards of Section 412 of the Code, and no liability (including contingent liability) has been incurred, directly or indirectly, to or on account of any such Pension Benefit Plan pursuant to Title IV of ERISA (excluding liability for benefit Claims and funding obligations payable in the ordinary course of business and liability for PBGC insurance premiums payable in the ordinary course of business). No proceedings have been instituted to terminate any Storm Benefit Plan that is a Pension Benefit Plan, and no condition exists that presents a material risk to Storm or any ERISA Affiliate of Storm of incurring a liability to or on account of a Pension Benefit Plan pursuant to Title IV of ERISA (excluding liability for benefit Claims and funding obligations payable in the ordinary course of business and liability for PBGC insurance premiums payable in the ordinary course of business). None of the Storm Transferred Assets is the subject of any Lien arising under Section 302(f) of ERISA or Section 412(n) of the Code.
Pension Plans
(c)           .  Each Storm Benefit Plan and all related trusts, insurance Contracts and funds have been maintained, funded and administered in material compliance with all Applicable Laws. No Claims with respect to Storm Benefit Plans (other than routine Claims for benefits) or with respect to any fiduciary or other Person dealing with any Storm Benefit Plan are pending or, to the knowledge of Storm, threatened. Storm and all ERISA Affiliates of Storm have complied with the requirements of Sections 4980B and 4980D of the Code with respect to employees and former employees of the Storm Subsea Business.
Compliance with Applicable Laws
 
 
 
-42-
 
 
(d)           .  Neither Storm nor any ERISA Affiliate of Storm has any obligation to contribute to or has any liability or potential liability (including, but not limited to, actual or potential withdrawal liability) with respect to any multiemployer plan, as such term is defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA, or with respect to any employee benefit plan of the type described in Sections 4063 and 4064 of ERISA or Section 413(c) of the Code, in each case, that is a Storm Benefit Plan.
No Multiemployer Plan
(e)           .  No Storm Benefit Plan provides, and neither Storm nor any ERISA Affiliate of Storm is otherwise obligated to provide, any amount constituting an excess parachute payment (as defined in Section 280G of the Code) with respect to any current or former employee of the Storm Subsea Business that will become a liability of a Venture Entity.
No Excess Parachute Payments
(f)           .  In addition to the foregoing, with respect to each Storm Benefit Plan that is not subject to Applicable Law in the U.S. (a ):
Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plans
Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan
(i)           all employer and employee contributions to each Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan required by Law or by the terms of such Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan have been made, or, if applicable, accrued in accordance with normal accounting practices, and a pro rata contribution for the period prior to and including the date of this Agreement has been made or accrued; and
(ii)           each Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan required to be registered has been registered and each Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan has been maintained in good standing with applicable Governmental Authorities and administered and funded in compliance with Applicable Laws and other requirements.  Each Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan is now and always has been operated in full compliance with all Applicable Laws and other requirements.  There are no currently pending or threatened Claims by a Governmental Authority with respect to any Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan, including, without limitation, Claims for accelerated contributions to any such Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan. Each Non-U.S. Storm Benefit Plan that is intended to qualify for special ax treatment meets all the requirements for such treatment
t
(g)           The representations and warranties in this Section 4.19 are the exclusive representations and warranties by Storm, Storm US and Storm BV relating to employee benefit matters.
4.20         .  As of immediately prior to the Closing Date, none of the Storm Transferred Assets contributed to US Venture Entity will consist of the stock of a corporation or other entity that is treated as a corporation under the income tax laws of the U.S. or any state or political subdivision thereof.  Immediately prior to the Closing, each Storm Transferred Subsidiary to be contributed to US Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(iii)(A) is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. federal tax purposes.
No Stock of U.S. Corporation
 
 
 
-43-
 
 
4.21         .
Environmental Matters
(a)           To the knowledge of Storm:  (i) Storm has made available for inspection and review by Cyclone correct and complete copies of all Phase I and Phase II environmental site assessment reports and to the extent completed in the past five years all environmental compliance assessments (if any) in its possession that describe or address environmental contamination, condition or compliance status of any Storm Owned Real Property, Storm Leased Real Property, or Storm Transferred Assets; (ii) there are no Hazardous Substances at, in, under or migrating to or from any Storm Owned Real Property, Storm Leased Real Property, or Storm Transferred Assets that, because of the concentration of such Hazardous Substances or the risk of human exposure to such Hazardous Substances are required under applicable Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements to be the subject of a Remedial Action; (iii) with respect to all Hazardous Substances that have been generated, used or stored by the Storm Subsea Business within the past five years on the Storm Owned Real Property or Storm Leased Real Property, such generation, use or storage by the Storm Subsea Business has not violated any applicable Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements; (iv) there are no Governmental Approvals required under any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements necessary for the operation of the Storm Subsea Business which Storm or one of its Affiliates does not possess; (v) the Storm Transferred Assets are being operated by Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or a Storm Entity, as the case may be, in compliance with all Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements; (vi) there is no outstanding order, writ, judgment, stipulation, injunction, decree, determination, award or other order related to any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements of any Governmental Authority against Storm or its Affiliates that relates to the Storm Transferred Assets; (vii) there are no Claims pending or threatened against Storm or any of its Affiliates before any Governmental Authority relating to alleged violations of any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements by the Storm Subsea Business or under which any Governmental Approval required by any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements may be revoked, terminated or suspended; (viii) of the Storm Disclosure Letter lists all (A) Storm Owned Real Property or Storm Leased Real Property with known existing soil, surface water or groundwater contamination at, on or beneath all or any part of such Storm Owned Real Property or Storm Leased Real Property; (B) third-party disposal sites with known existing soil, surface water or groundwater contamination relating to waste disposal or other activities of the Storm Subsea Business prior to Closing as to which Storm or any of its Affiliates has received written notice; and (C) any known noncompliance of the Storm Transferred Assets or any part thereof under any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirement; and (ix) there is no friable asbestos or materials containing polychlorinated biphenyls at or on any of the Storm Owned Real Property, except, in each of cases clauses (i) through (ix), for matters that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Storm Subsea Business.
Section 4.21(a)
 
(b)           The representations and warranties in this Section 4.21 are the exclusive representations and warranties by Storm, Storm US and Storm BV relating to environmental matters.
 
 
 
-44-
 
 
4.22         .  Neither Storm, Storm US or Storm BV nor any Storm Entity nor any director, manager, officer, employee, agent or other person associated with or acting on behalf of any of the foregoing, directly or indirectly, has made, offered or agreed to offer a Prohibited Payment in connection with the Storm Subsea Business that would cause any such entity to be in violation of the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or any Applicable Law related to anti-corruption. None of Storm, Storm US or Storm BV has knowledge of any governmental investigations of Storm, Storm US, Storm BV or any Storm Entity or any director, manager, officer, employee or agent or other person associated with or acting on behalf of such Person in connection with the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or any Applicable Law related to anti-corruption.  Storm and each Storm Entity have complied in all material respects with all Applicable Laws relating to export control and trade sanctions, embargoes and money laundering.
Compliance with Applicable Anti-Corruption, Export and Money-Laundering Laws
ARTICLE 5.
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF CYCLONE
Except as set forth in the corresponding Section of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter, it being understood that any disclosure set forth in the applicable paragraph or Section of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter shall be deemed to be disclosed for any other Section or paragraph of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter or for any portion of this Article 5 to which the relevance of such disclosure is reasonably apparent from the context of such disclosure, Cyclone represents, warrants and covenants to Storm, Storm US and Storm BV, as of the date of this Agreement and as of the Closing Date (except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date, in which case only at and as of such specified date), that the following are true and correct:
5.1           .  Cyclone is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware and has all requisite corporate power and authority under Applicable Law and its Charter Documents to own or lease and to operate its assets and to conduct or cause to be conducted the Cyclone Subsea Business as it is now being conducted by Cyclone. Each subsidiary of Cyclone that is being contributed or transferred to the Venture Entities as a part of the Cyclone Subsea Business (each, a ) and each of the other Affiliates of Cyclone that is transferring or contributing assets or liabilities to the Venture Entities pursuant to this Agreement (collectively, the  and, together with the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries, the ) is, or will be at the Closing Date, a corporation, limited liability company or other entity duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization. Each of the Cyclone Entities has all requisite corporate or other power and authority to own or lease and to operate its assets and to conduct the Cyclone Subsea Business now being or to be conducted by it at the time of the Closing. Each of Cyclone and each Cyclone Entity is, or will be at the Closing Date, duly authorized, qualified or licensed to do business as a foreign corporation or other organization in good standing in each of the jurisdictions in which its right, title or interest in or to any of the Cyclone Transferred Assets held by it or the Cyclone Subsea Business conducted by it requires such authorization, qualification or licensing, except where the failure to have such authorization, qualification or licensing has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business. Cyclone has all requisite corporate power and authority under Applicable Law and its Charter Documents to enter into this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party and to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. Each Cyclone Entity has, or will have at the Closing Date, all corporate or other requisite power and authority under Applicable Law and its Charter Documents to enter into the Transaction Documents to which it is or will be a party, to perform its obligations thereunder and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby.
Due Organization, Good Standing and Power
Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary
Cyclone Transferring Affiliates
Cyclone Entities
 
 
 
-45-
 
 
5.2           .  The execution and delivery by Cyclone of this Agreement, the execution and delivery by Cyclone and each Cyclone Entity of the other Transaction Documents to which any of them is or will be a party and the consummation by them of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby have been (in the case of Cyclone), or will be at the Closing Date (in the case of each Cyclone Entity), duly authorized and approved by all necessary corporate or other action under Applicable Law and the relevant Charter Documents on the part of Cyclone and such Cyclone Entity, as the case may be, and do not and will not require the approval of the stockholders of Cyclone. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by Cyclone, and at the Closing each of the other Transaction Documents to which Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity is a party will have been duly executed and delivered by Cyclone and such Cyclone Entity, as the case may be. This Agreement is the legal, valid and binding obligation of Cyclone, enforceable against each in accordance with its terms, except as that enforceability may be (i) limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (ii) subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether that enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). At the Closing, each other Transaction Document to which Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity is a party will be the legal, valid and binding obligation of Cyclone and such Cyclone Entity, as the case may be, in each case enforceable against Cyclone and such Cyclone Entity in accordance with its terms, except as that enforceability may be (i) limited by any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors rights generally and (ii) subject to general principles of equity (regardless of whether that enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
Authorization and Validity of Agreements
5.3           .  Neither the execution and delivery by Cyclone of this Agreement nor the execution and delivery by Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity of any other Transaction Document to which Cyclone or any such Cyclone Entity is or will be a party, nor the consummation by them of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, does or will (i) conflict with, or result in the breach of any provision of, the Charter Documents of Cyclone or any such Cyclone Entity, (ii) violate any Applicable Law or any permit, order, award, injunction, decree or judgment of any Governmental Authority applicable to or binding upon Cyclone or any such Cyclone Entity or to which any of their respective properties or assets is subject, (iii) result in the creation of any Lien upon any of the Cyclone Transferred Assets or (iv) violate, conflict with or result in the breach or termination of, or otherwise give any other Person the right to terminate, or constitute a default, event of default or an event that with notice, lapse of time or both, would constitute a default or event of default under the terms of, any Contract included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets or by which any of the Cyclone Transferred Assets is subject, except in the case of (ii), (iii) and (iv) for such violations, Liens, conflicts or breaches as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business.
Lack of Conflicts
 
 
 
-46-
 
 
5.4           .  Neither the execution and delivery by Cyclone of this Agreement nor the execution and delivery by Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity of any other Transaction Document to which Cyclone or any such Cyclone Entity is or will be a party, nor the consummation by Cyclone of the transactions in accordance with the terms hereof or thereof will require any Governmental Approvals, other than (i) possible filings required under the HSR Act, (ii) filings and notifications required under applicable non-U.S. Antitrust Laws (such as the EU Merger Regulation) and (iii) any Governmental Approval the failure of which to obtain or make, would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business. At the Closing, no Governmental Approval or other consent will be required by Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents to which Cyclone or any such Cyclone Entity is a party, except for such Governmental Approvals or consents as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business.
No Consents
5.5           .  Except for Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, neither Cyclone nor any of its Affiliates nor any of their officers, directors or employees, on behalf of Cyclone or such Affiliates, has employed any broker or finder or incurred any other liability for any brokerage fees, commissions or finders fees in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby.
Certain Fees
5.6           .
Financial Information; Absence of Undisclosed Liabilities
(a)           The unaudited financial information set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter (the ) has been prepared in accordance with the books and records of the Cyclone Entities in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with Cyclones historical accounting policies and practices and is fairly presented in all material respects with respect to the Cyclone Subsea Business as of the date thereof.
Section 5.6(a)
Cyclone Financial Information
(b)           None of the Cyclone Entities has any liabilities with respect to the Cyclone Subsea Business that are required to be reflected in the balance sheets of the Cyclone Entities with respect to the Cyclone Subsea Business in accordance with Cyclones historical accounting policies and practices, or any off-balance sheet liabilities (as such term is used in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K) that are not reflected or reserved against in the Cyclone Financial Information, other than liabilities that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business.
 
 
 
-47-
 
 
5.7           .  Since December 31, 2011, no change in the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Cyclone Transferred Assets has occurred which has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business. Since December 31, 2011, Cyclone and its Affiliates have caused the Cyclone Subsea Business to be conducted in the ordinary course consistent with its past practice (including with respect to the collection of receivables, payment of payables and other liabilities, advertising activities, bidding and sales practices, equipment maintenance, replacements or upgrades, inventory levels, accounting policies, contributions to or accruals to or in respect of Employee Benefit Plans and off-site and on-site storage, treatment and disposal of Hazardous Substances generated prior to Closing).
No Material Changes
5.8           .   of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter sets forth a list of each Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary as of the date of this Agreement, together with the authorized, issued and outstanding equity capitalization of each entity identified as a Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary (the ). As of the Closing Date, Cyclone shall have made available to Storm correct and complete copies of the Charter Documents of each Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary. Cyclone is the indirect beneficial owner of all of the issued and outstanding Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries Interests free and clear of all Liens. Except for the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries Interests, there are no shares of capital stock or other equity securities of any of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries issued and outstanding. The Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries Interests have not been issued in violation of, and the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries Interests are not subject to, any purchase option, call, right of first refusal, preemptive, subscription or similar rights under any provision of Applicable Law, the Charter Documents of Cyclone or the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries or any Contract to which Cyclone or any of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries is a party or is otherwise bound. There are no outstanding warrants, options, rights, phantom stock rights, agreements, convertible or exchangeable securities or other commitments (other than this Agreement) pursuant to which any of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries is or may become obligated to issue, sell, purchase, return or redeem any shares of capital stock or other equity securities. There are no equity securities of any of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries reserved for issuance for any purpose. There are no outstanding bonds, debentures, notes or other securities having the right to vote on any matters on which stockholders or equity owners of any of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries may vote.
Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries
Section 5.8
Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries Interests
5.9           .
Real Property
(a)           .
Title
(i)           Set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter is a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of (1) all owned real property included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets (the ), (2) all leasehold estates in all leased real property included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets (the ) and (3) all licenses, occupancy or possessory interests and other real property interests included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets (the ). of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter also identifies all Cyclone Owned Real Property, Cyclone Leased Real Property and Cyclone Other Real Property Rights that also are used as of the date hereof by other businesses of Cyclone or its Affiliates and describes the nature of such use by such other businesses of Cyclone or its Affiliates, and such use does not interfere with the Cyclone Subsea Business. No Cyclone Owned Real Property is leased to any third party, Cyclone has not granted any third party any license, possessory or occupancy right or other similar right therein other than Permitted Encumbrances, and no Cyclone Leased Real Property is subleased to any third party. Cyclone or a Cyclone Entity, as applicable, has (A) good and indefeasible fee title to all Cyclone Owned Real Property, (B) good and valid title to the leasehold estates in all Cyclone Leased Real Property and (C) good and valid title to all Cyclone Other Real Property Rights, in the case of each of clauses (A), (B) and (C) above, free and clear of all Liens, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances.
Section 5.9
Cyclone Owned Real Property
Cyclone Leased Real Property
Cyclone Other Real Property Rights
Section 5.9
 
 
 
-48-
 
 
(ii)           There are no outstanding options, rights of first offer or rights of first refusal to purchase any of such Cyclone Real Owned Property or any portion of or any interest therein.
(b)           .  Each of the leases relating to the Cyclone Leased Real Property (each, a ) is in full force and effect and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligations of Cyclone or its Affiliates that are parties thereto and, to the knowledge of Cyclone, the other parties thereto, enforceable against Cyclone and/or such Affiliates and, to the knowledge of Cyclone, the other parties thereto, in accordance with their respective terms. No Cyclone Real Property Lease has been amended, modified or supplemented except as described in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter. No party to any Cyclone Real Property Lease has repudiated any provision thereof, and neither Cyclone (nor its Affiliates that are parties thereto, as the case may be) nor, to the knowledge of Cyclone, any other party thereto, is in breach of any of its respective obligations thereunder, and no event has occurred (including the failure to obtain any consent) which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a breach or default thereunder.
Cyclone Real Property Leases
Cyclone Real Property Lease
Section 5.9
(c)           .   of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter sets forth a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of all material owned or leased real property of Cyclone that is not being included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets but which is used by the Cyclone Subsea Business (each, a ).
Joint Use Facilities
Section 5.9(c)
Cyclone Joint Facility
(d)           .  Except for the Cyclone Owned Real Property, the Cyclone Leased Real Property and the Cyclone Other Real Property Rights, neither Cyclone nor any Affiliate of Cyclone owns or leases any real property used or held for use primarily in or related primarily to or necessary for the operation or conduct of the Cyclone Subsea Business or has any options to acquire any fee interest or leasehold interest in any real property for use primarily in or related primarily to or necessary for the operation or conduct of the Cyclone Subsea Business.
No Other Realty
 
 
 
-49-
 
 
(e)           .  There are no pending or, to the knowledge of Cyclone, threatened condemnation, eminent domain or similar proceedings affecting the Cyclone Owned Real Property, the Cyclone Leased Real Property or the Cyclone Other Real Property Rights. There are no existing public improvements which may reasonably be expected to result in any special assessment against the Cyclone Owned Real Property.
No Claims
(f)           .  All utility easements, rights of access and other easements and similar rights serving the Cyclone Owned Real Property are legally enforceable to permit the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business in substantially the manner in which the Cyclone Subsea Business is currently operated. Other than Permitted Encumbrances, there are no encroachments upon the Cyclone Owned Real Property and no encroachments of any improvements composing the Cyclone Owned Real Property onto adjacent property, except for such encroachments as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material adverse effect on a particular item of real property. The improvements to the Cyclone Owned Real Property (and the current uses thereof) do not violate set-back, building or side lines, or any applicable land use covenants, zoning regulations, or similar enforceable restrictions, nor do they encroach on any easements located on the Cyclone Owned Real Property.
Title Exceptions
5.10         .  Cyclone and the Cyclone Entities have good and valid title to all Personal Property included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets, in each case, free and clear of all Liens, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances.
Title to Personal Property
5.11         Except as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business, (i) there are no Governmental Approvals necessary for the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business which Cyclone or one of its Affiliates does not possess, (ii) there is no proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of Cyclone, threatened under which any Governmental Approvals that have been issued or granted to Cyclone or one of its Affiliates in connection with the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business (the ) may be revoked, terminated or suspended, nor, to the knowledge of Cyclone, are there any reasonable grounds for the revocation, termination or suspension of any Cyclone Governmental Approvals, and (iii) no third-party consents are required for the assignment or transfer of each of the Cyclone Governmental Approvals to the Venture Entities.
Cyclone Governmental Approvals
.
Cyclone Governmental Approvals
5.12         .
Taxes
(a)           .  Except with respect to Permitted Encumbrances, (i) there are no material Liens for Taxes on any of the Cyclone Transferred Assets and (ii) no Claim has been made by any Governmental Authority that could give rise to any such Lien.
Liens for Unpaid Taxes
(b)           .  Insofar as concerns the Cyclone Subsea Business, (i) each of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries has timely filed (taking into account any applicable extensions) with the appropriate taxing authority all material Tax returns required to be filed (except where failure to timely file such returns will not result in material consequences), and each such return was complete and correct in all material respects, (ii) all material Taxes shown on such returns as due and payable or for which any of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries are or could otherwise be held liable, have been duly and timely paid by Cyclone or a Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary, (iii) no material Tax audits or other material administrative proceedings or court proceedings are pending with regard to any Taxes for which any of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries may be liable or for which an owner of a Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary may be liable as a result of such ownership, (iv) none of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries or owners thereof has entered into any agreement with any Governmental Authority extending the period for assessment or collection of any material Taxes, and (v) none of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries is a party to or is bound by or has any obligation under any material Tax-sharing agreement, Tax indemnity agreement or similar agreement or arrangement.
Payment of Taxes
 
 
 
-50-
 
 
(c)           The representations and warranties in this Section 5.12 and Section 5.19 and Section 5.20 are the exclusive representations and warranties by Cyclone relating to Tax matters.
5.13         .   of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter sets forth a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of all agreements with labor organizations, works councils, unions or associations applicable to the Cyclone Subsea Business Employees. There are no discrimination complaints, employment-related complaints or any other kind of labor-related disputes against Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity in connection with the Cyclone Subsea Business pending before or, to the knowledge of Cyclone, threatened before any Governmental Authority, and, to the knowledge of Cyclone, no dispute respecting minimum wage or overtime Claims exists. The Cyclone Subsea Business has not experienced any labor disputes or any work stoppage due to labor disagreements within the past three years. With respect to the Cyclone Subsea Business: (i) there is no unfair labor practice charge or complaint against Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity actually pending or, to the knowledge of Cyclone, threatened before the National Labor Relations Board or similar agencies in non-U.S. jurisdictions; (ii) there is no labor strike, slowdown or stoppage actually pending or, to the knowledge of Cyclone, threatened against or affecting Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity; and (iii) no attempt to organize any of the Cyclone Subsea Business Employees has resulted in an election within the past three years or, to the knowledge of Cyclone, is threatened respecting any of the Cyclone Subsea Business Employees. The Cyclone Subsea Business is not now, and has not at any time within the past three years been, subject to any collective bargaining agreement, Contract, letter of understanding or other similar arrangement with any labor organizations, works councils, unions or associations.  Cyclone and each Cyclone Entity has complied in all material respects with all Applicable Laws pertaining to the employment or termination of employment of their employees, including all Applicable Laws relating to labor relations, equal employment opportunities fair employment practices, prohibited discrimination, applicable information and consultation obligations, occupational safety and health standards, terms and conditions of employment, payment of wages, workers compensation, immigration and visa requirements and other similar employment activities.  Each Cyclone Subsea Business Employee has been paid all wages, income and any other sum due and owing to such employee by Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity. The representations and warranties in this Section 5.13 are the exclusive representations and warranties by Cyclone relating to labor matters.
Employees
Section 5.13
 
 
 
-51-
 
 
5.14         .  The Cyclone Transferred Assets are being operated by Cyclone or a Cyclone Entity, as the case may be, in compliance with all Applicable Laws, except for such noncompliance as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business. Neither Cyclone nor any of its Affiliates has received any notice from any Governmental Authority that the operations of the Cyclone Subsea Business are being conducted in violation of any Applicable Law or are the subject of any investigation or review pending or threatened by any Governmental Authority relating to any alleged violation. There is no outstanding order, writ, judgment, stipulation, injunction, decree, determination, award or other order of any Governmental Authority against Cyclone or its Affiliates that relates to the Cyclone Transferred Assets.
Compliance with Laws
5.15         .  There are no Claims pending or, to the knowledge of Cyclone, threatened against Cyclone or any of its Affiliates before any Governmental Authority (i) seeking to prevent or delay the Closing or (ii) relating to the Cyclone Subsea Business, except in each case for such Claims as have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business.
Legal Proceedings
5.16         .
Sufficiency and Condition of the Cyclone Transferred Assets
(a)           .  The Cyclone Transferred Assets, together with the Cyclone Retained IP, the services being provided under the Shared Services Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the assets being leased, subleased or licensed to the Venture Entities pursuant to Section 2.3(c), and the products to be supplied under the Cyclone Supply Agreement, constitute all property and other rights necessary to operate and conduct the Cyclone Subsea Business in substantially the same manner as it is currently being operated and conducted.
Sufficiency
(b)           .  Except as has not had and would not reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business, all of the Personal Property currently used in the Cyclone Subsea Business and included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets (i) is in good operating condition and repair (ordinary wear and tear excepted) and (ii) has been maintained in a manner consistent with industry practice.
Condition
5.17         .   of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter contains, to the best of Cyclones knowledge, a correct and complete list as of the date of this Agreement of all the Contracts used or held for use primarily in or related primarily to the operation or conduct of the Cyclone Subsea Business of the following types that are to be transferred to and assumed (or, in the case of Guarantees, replaced) by the Venture Entities as of the Closing Date and to which Cyclone or any of its Affiliates is a party or to which any of the Cyclone Transferred Assets are subject (each, a ):
Material Contracts
Section 5.17
Cyclone Material Contract
(a)           any indenture, note, loan or credit agreement or other Contract relating to the borrowing of money;
 
 
 
-52-
 
 
(b)           any Contract which is expected to involve the payment of an amount in excess of $25,000,000 or receipt of an amount in excess of $25,000,000;
(c)           any joint venture, partnership or similar organizational Contract involving a sharing of profits or losses related to all or any portion of the Cyclone Subsea Business;
(d)           any Contract granting to any Person a right of first refusal or option to purchase or acquire any Cyclone Transferred Asset or group of Cyclone Transferred Assets;
(e)           any agency, sponsor, consultant or commission agreement where any Person is providing such services to or on behalf of the Cyclone Subsea Business;
(f)           any power of attorney (other than powers of attorney given in the ordinary course of business);
(g)           any Guarantee (other than any indemnification Contract) with respect to which Cyclone or any of its Affiliates is the obligor in respect of an obligation that exceeds $25,000,000;
(h)           any indemnification Contract with respect to which Cyclone or any of its Affiliates is the obligor (including in connection with the sale of assets) that was made outside the ordinary course of business;
(i) any Contract or consent decree which imposes or could by its terms impose any material restrictions on the Venture Entities with respect to their geographical areas of operations or scope or type of business;
   
 
(j) any Contract involving swaps, futures, derivatives or similar instruments, regardless of value, except such Contracts entered into as a hedging activity in the ordinary course of business consistent with Cyclones past practice and internal policy guidelines;
   
 
(k) any collective bargaining agreement;
   
(l)             any Contract pursuant to which a Governmental Authority is providing tax abatements or other similar economic incentives in connection with the Cyclone Subsea Business;
 
(m)           any software license agreement which is material to the Cyclone Subsea Business;
(n)            any material Contract between Cyclone or one of its Affiliates and another Affiliate relating to the Cyclone Subsea Business; or
(o)            any Contract not otherwise specified in paragraphs (a) through (n) above that is material to the Cyclone Subsea Business, taken as a whole.
 
 
 
-53-
 
 
Cyclone and its Affiliates have duly performed and complied in all material respects with their respective obligations under each Cyclone Material Contract. None of Cyclone or any of its Affiliates has received any notice of termination or default from any other party to such Cyclone Material Contract. To the knowledge of Cyclone, no other party to such Cyclone Material Contract is in default of its obligations thereunder. Each such Cyclone Material Contract may be assigned to the Venture Entities without the consent of any other party thereto.
5.18         .
Proprietary Rights
(a)            of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter sets forth, to the best of Cyclones knowledge, a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of the following items of Intellectual Property used or held for use primarily in or related primarily to and, in each case, material to the operation or conduct of the Cyclone Subsea Business (collectively, the ): (i) patents and patent applications; (ii) trademarks, trade names and service marks; (iii) registered copyrights; and (iv) documented invention disclosures, in each case whether registered or unregistered, and U.S. or non-U.S.
Section 5.18(a)
Cyclone Proprietary Rights
(b)           (i) Cyclone or its Affiliates own or possess adequate licenses or other valid rights to use all the Cyclone Proprietary Rights; (ii) the Cyclone Proprietary Rights included in the Cyclone Transferred Assets, together with the Cyclone Retained IP, constitute, to the best of Cyclones knowledge, all such rights necessary to conduct the Cyclone Subsea Business in substantially the same manner as it is presently being conducted; (iii) the validity of the Cyclone Proprietary Rights and the rights therein of Cyclone or any of its Affiliates have not been questioned in any litigation to which Cyclone or any of its Affiliates is a party, nor, to the knowledge of Cyclone, is any such litigation threatened; (iv) to the knowledge of Cyclone, the conduct of the Cyclone Subsea Business does not conflict with any Intellectual Property of others; and (v) the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will not conflict with, alter or impair any Cyclone Proprietary Rights.
(c)           To Cyclones knowledge, no use of any Cyclone Proprietary Rights has heretofore been, or is now being, made by any Person other than Cyclone and its Affiliates, and no infringement of any Cyclone Proprietary Rights has occurred or is continuing. No director or officer of Cyclone has any ownership interest in any of the Cyclone Proprietary Rights.
5.19         .
Employee Benefit Matters
(a)           .  Cyclone has furnished to Storm summaries of each Cyclone Benefit Plan and will provide correct and complete copies of the following items relating to each Cyclone Benefit Plan by February 1, 2013: (i) the governing plan documents, including all amendments thereto; (ii) the most recent summary plan description and summary of material modifications; (iii) the most recent Form 5500 Annual Report filed with the IRS, together with attachments thereto or similar reports filed in non-U.S. jurisdictions; and (iv) if applicable, the most recent actuarial report.
Copies of Documents
(b)           .  Each Cyclone Benefit Plan that is a Pension Benefit Plan has satisfied the minimum funding standards of Section 412 of the Code, and no liability (including contingent liability) has been incurred, directly or indirectly, to or on account of any such Pension Benefit Plan pursuant to Title IV of ERISA (excluding liability for benefit Claims and funding obligations payable in the ordinary course of business and liability for PBGC insurance premiums payable in the ordinary course of business). No proceedings have been instituted to terminate any Cyclone Benefit Plan that is a Pension Benefit Plan, and no condition exists that presents a material risk to Cyclone or any ERISA Affiliate of Cyclone of incurring a liability to or on account of a Pension Benefit Plan pursuant to Title IV of ERISA (excluding liability for benefit Claims and funding obligations payable in the ordinary course of business and liability for PBGC insurance premiums payable in the ordinary course of business). None of the Cyclone Transferred Assets is the subject of any Lien arising under Section 302(f) of ERISA or Section 412(n) of the Code.
Pension Plans
 
 
 
-54-
 
 
(c)           .  Each Cyclone Benefit Plan and all related trusts, insurance Contracts and funds have been maintained, funded and administered in material compliance with all Applicable Laws. No Claims with respect to Cyclone Benefit Plans (other than routine Claims for benefits) or with respect to any fiduciary or other Person dealing with any Cyclone Benefit Plan are pending or, to the knowledge of Cyclone, threatened. Cyclone and all ERISA Affiliates of Cyclone have complied with the requirements of Sections 4980B and 4980D of the Code with respect to employees and former employees of the Cyclone Subsea Business.
Compliance with Applicable Laws
(d)           .  Neither Cyclone nor any ERISA Affiliate of Cyclone has any obligation to contribute to or has any liability or potential liability (including, but not limited to, actual or potential withdrawal liability) with respect to any multiemployer plan, as such term is defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA, or with respect to any employee benefit plan of the type described in Sections 4063 and 4064 of ERISA or Section 413(c) of the Code, in each case, that is a Cyclone Benefit Plan.
No Multiemployer Plan
(e)           .  No Cyclone Benefit Plan provides, and neither Cyclone nor any ERISA Affiliate of Cyclone is otherwise obligated to provide, any amount constituting an excess parachute payment (as defined in Section 280G of the Code) with respect to any current or former employee of the Cyclone Subsea Business that will become a liability of a Venture Entity.
No Excess Parachute Payments
(f)             In addition to the foregoing, with respect to each Cyclone Benefit Plan that is not subject to Applicable Law in the U.S. (a ):
Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plans.
Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan
(i)           all employer and employee contributions to each Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan required by Law or by the terms of such Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan have been made, or, if applicable, accrued in accordance with normal accounting practices, and a pro rata contribution for the period prior to and including the date of this Agreement has been made or accrued; and
 
 
 
-55-
 
 
(ii)           each Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan required to be registered has been registered and each Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan has been maintained in good standing with applicable Governmental Authorities and administered and funded in compliance with Applicable Laws and other requirements.  Each Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan is now and always has been operated in full compliance with all Applicable Laws and other requirements.  There are no currently pending or threatened Claims by a Governmental Authority with respect to any Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan, including, without limitation, Claims for accelerated contributions to any such Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan. Each Non-U.S. Cyclone Benefit Plan that is intended to qualify for special ax treatment meets all the requirements for such treatment.
t
(g)           The representations and warranties in this Section 5.19 are the exclusive representations and warranties by Cyclone relating to employee benefit matters.
5.20         .  As of immediately prior to the Closing Date, none of the Cyclone Transferred Assets contributed to US Venture Entity will consist of the stock of a corporation or other entity that is treated as a corporation under the income tax laws of the U.S. or any state or political subdivision thereof.  Immediately prior to Closing, US Venture Entity and each Cyclone Transferred Subsidiary to be contributed to US Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(i)(A) is disregarded as an entity separate from its owner for U.S. federal tax purposes.
No Stock of U.S. Corporation
5.21         .
Environmental Matters
(a)           To the knowledge of Cyclone:  (i) Cyclone has made available for inspection and review by Storm correct and complete copies of all Phase I and Phase II environmental site assessment reports and to the extent completed in the past five years all environmental compliance assessments (if any) in its possession that describe or address environmental contamination, condition or compliance status of any Cyclone Owned Real Property, Cyclone Leased Real Property, or Cyclone Transferred Assets; (ii) there are no Hazardous Substances at, in, under or migrating to or from any Cyclone Owned Real Property, Cyclone Leased Real Property, or Cyclone Transferred Assets that, because of the concentration of such Hazardous Substances or the risk of human exposure to such Hazardous Substances are required under applicable Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements to be the subject of a Remedial Action; (iii) with respect to all Hazardous Substances that have been generated, used or stored by the Cyclone Subsea Business within the past five years on the Cyclone Owned Real Property or Cyclone Leased Real Property, such generation, use or storage by the Cyclone Subsea Business has not violated any applicable Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements; (iv) there are no Governmental Approvals required under any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements necessary for the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business which Cyclone or one of its Affiliates does not possess; (v) the Cyclone Transferred Assets are being operated by Cyclone or a Cyclone Entity, as the case may be, in compliance with all Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements; (vi) there is no outstanding order, writ, judgment, stipulation, injunction, decree, determination, award or other order related to any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements of any Governmental Authority against Cyclone or its Affiliates that relates to the Cyclone Transferred Assets; (vii) there are no Claims pending or threatened against Cyclone or any of its Affiliates before any Governmental Authority relating to alleged violations of any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements by the Cyclone Subsea Business or under which any Governmental Approval required by any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements may be revoked, terminated or suspended; (viii) of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter lists all (A) Cyclone Owned Real Property or Cyclone Leased Real Property with known existing soil, surface water or groundwater contamination at, on or beneath all or any part of such Cyclone Owned Real Property or Cyclone Leased Real Property; (B) third-party disposal sites with known existing soil, surface water or groundwater contamination relating to waste disposal or other activities of the Cyclone Subsea Business prior to Closing as to which Cyclone or any of its Affiliates has received written notice; and (C) any known noncompliance of the Cyclone Transferred Assets or any part thereof under any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirement; and (ix) there is no friable asbestos or materials containing polychlorinated biphenyls at or on any of the Cyclone Owned Real Property, except, in each of cases clauses (i) through (ix), for matters that have not had and would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business.
Section 5.21(a)
 
 
 
-56-
 
 
(b)           The representations and warranties in this Section 5.21 are the exclusive representations and warranties by Cyclone relating to environmental matters.
5.22         .  Neither Cyclone nor any Cyclone Entity nor any director, manager, officer, employee, agent or other person associated with or acting on behalf of any of the foregoing, directly or indirectly, has made, offered or agreed to offer a Prohibited Payment in connection with the Cyclone Subsea Business that would cause any such entity to be in violation of the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or any Applicable Law related to anti-corruption. Cyclone has no knowledge of any governmental investigations of Cyclone or any Cyclone Entity or any director, manager, officer, employee or agent or other person associated with or acting on behalf of such Person in connection with the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act or any Applicable Law related to anti-corruption.  Cyclone and each other Storm Entity have complied in all material respects with all Applicable Laws relating to export control and trade sanctions, embargoes and money laundering.
Compliance with Applicable Anti-Corruption, Export and Money Laundering Laws
ARTICLE 6.
COVENANTS PRIOR TO CLOSING
Cyclone, Storm, Storm US and Storm BV each agree that during the period between the date of this Agreement and the Closing:
6.1           .  Except (i) as expressly provided in this Agreement, (ii) as set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter or the Storm Disclosure Letter, as applicable, (iii) as required by Applicable Law or (iv) with the express written consent of the other parties to this Agreement (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed):
Conduct of the Business Prior to Closing
Section 6.1
(a)           (i) It shall conduct (and shall cause its Affiliates to conduct) the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as the case may be, in the ordinary course consistent with its past practice (including with respect to the collection of receivables, payment of payables and other liabilities, advertising activities, bidding and sales practices, equipment maintenance, replacements or upgrades, inventory levels, accounting policies, contributions to or accruals to or in respect of Employee Benefit Plans and off-site and on-site storage, treatment and disposal of Hazardous Substances generated prior to Closing), and (ii) it shall use its commercially reasonable efforts (or cause its Affiliates to use their commercially reasonable efforts) to maintain the Cyclone Transferred Assets or the Storm Transferred Assets, as the case may be, in substantially the same condition (except normal wear and tear) existing on the date hereof.
 
 
 
-57-
 
 
(b)           It shall use its commercially reasonable efforts, consistent with past practice, to maintain the services of, and good relations with, the dealers, jobbers, distributors, customers and suppliers with whom sales or purchases are currently effected in connection with the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as the case may be.
(c)           It shall not, and shall cause its Affiliates not to, take any of the following actions in connection with the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as the case may be:
(i)           incur, assume or Guarantee any Indebtedness or make any loans, advances or capital contributions to or investments in any other Person, in each case other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with its past practice;
(ii)           enter into any swap, futures or derivatives transaction except hedging activity in the ordinary course of business consistent with its past practice and internal policy guidelines;
(iii)           sell, transfer, pledge or otherwise dispose of any Cyclone Transferred Asset or any Storm Transferred Asset, as the case may be, except for sales of inventory and the sale, transfer or other disposition of uneconomic or obsolete equipment in the ordinary course of business consistent with its past practice;
(iv)           waive any Claims other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with its past practice, or cancel or compromise any Indebtedness owed to it;
(v)           make aggregate unbudgeted expenditures and commitments in excess of $10,000,000 in the case of Cyclone and its Affiliates, taken as a whole, and $10,000,000 in the case of Storm and its Affiliates, taken as a whole, in each case, other than (A) in the ordinary course of business consistent with its past practice or (B) pursuant to requirements of Applicable Law;
(vi)           make any change in any method of accounting or keeping of books of account or accounting practices or principles, except as required by Applicable Law or, in the opinion of the independent public accountants of such party, by GAAP;
 
 
 
-58-
 
 
(vii)           except in the ordinary course of business consistent with its past practice, materially modify, amend or terminate, or waive any material rights under, any Cyclone Material Contract or Storm Material Contract, as applicable, or enter into any Contract that would constitute a Cyclone Material Contract or Storm Material Contract if entered into prior to the date of this Agreement;
(viii)           close any facilities which are material to the financial condition, results of operations, business or prospects of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable;
(ix)           mortgage, pledge or subject to any Lien any of the Cyclone Transferred Assets or the Storm Transferred Assets, as the case may be, except for Permitted Encumbrances;
(x)           settle or agree to settle any litigation or other legal proceeding relating to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as the case may be, where such settlement would have, or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a material impact on the operations or conduct of the business of the Venture Entities;
(xi)           (a) make, revoke or change any material election relating to Taxes, (b) change or revoke any Tax accounting method or (c) change any Tax accounting period if, in each case, such action is inconsistent with ordinary and customary historical practices and principally related to the Cyclone Subsea Business or Storm Subsea Business, as applicable;
(xii)           (a) materially amend or terminate any material Employee Benefit Plan or establish, adopt or enter into any Employee Benefit Plan that, if in effect on the date of this Agreement, would be a material Employee Benefit Plan, (b) enter into any collective bargaining agreement or similar agreement with any labor union or works council or (c) materially increase salary or wages, as applicable, bonus or other incentive compensation, or other benefits or compensation, in each of clauses (a), (b) and (c) relating to the Cyclone Subsea Business Employees or Storm Subsea Business Employees, except for any such actions (i) in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, (ii) required by Applicable Law or the terms of any Employee Benefit Plan in effect as of the date hereof or (iii) for which Cyclone or Storm, as applicable, will retain all liability;
(xiii)           fail to renew any lease that is material to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable; or
(xiv)           agree or commit to do any of the foregoing.
 
For the avoidance of doubt, none of the covenants set forth in this Section 6.1 are intended to or shall impose any restriction on (1) the respective operations of Cyclone or Storm or their respective Affiliates that are not related to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable, (2) the Non-Transferred Cyclone Assets or the Non-Transferred Storm Assets or (3) the ability of Cyclone, Storm or their respective Affiliates to transfer or assign any Non-Transferred Assets or Excluded Liabilities from a Cyclone Entity or a Storm Entity, as applicable, to an entity that is not a Cyclone Entity or a Storm Entity.
 
 
 
-59-
 
 
6.2           .
Antitrust Notification; Other Reporting Requirements
(a)           Cyclone and Storm shall, as promptly as practicable after the execution of this Agreement, but in no event later than 15 days after the date hereof, make any required filings under the HSR Act. Any filing, notification, report form or supplemental submission so filed or submitted will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the HSR Act.
(b)           Cyclone and Storm shall use their reasonable best efforts to cooperate with each other (i) to determine whether any filings are required and advisable to be made with, or consents, permits, authorizations, waivers or approvals are required to be obtained from, any third parties or Governmental Authorities in connection with the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) to timely make all such required and advisable filings and timely seek all such consents, permits, authorizations or approvals, and (iii) to respond at the earliest date reasonably possible to any requests for  information or documentary material made by the Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, or any other Governmental Authority.
(c)           Cyclone and Storm shall give the other reasonable notice of, and, to the extent permitted by the applicable Governmental Authority and practical, allow the other to attend and to participate at any meeting, telephone call or any other communication with any Governmental Authority with respect to any filing, investigation, possible resolution or commitment or other inquiry or proceeding related to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
(d)           Cyclone and Storm agree not to participate in any meeting or substantive discussion (including, without limitation, any discussion relating to the antitrust merits, any potential remedies, commitments or undertakings, the timing of any waivers, consents, approvals, permits, orders or authorizations, and any agreement regarding the timing of consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement) with any Governmental Authority relating to any filings or investigation concerning this Agreement or the transactions contemplated by this Agreement unless, to the extent practical, it consults with the other party and its representatives in advance and invites the other partys representatives to attend unless the Governmental Authority prohibits such attendance.
(e)           To the extent reasonably practical, Cyclone and Storm agree to promptly furnish the other party, subject in appropriate cases to appropriate confidentiality agreements to limit disclosure to outside counsel or consultants, with draft copies prior to submission to a Governmental Authority, with reasonable time and opportunity to comment, of all correspondence, filings and communications that they or their respective Affiliates or representatives intend to submit to any Governmental Authority, and correspondence, filings and communications received from any Governmental Authority shall be immediately provided to the other party upon receipt. Cyclone and Storm agree to provide one another promptly with final copies of any submissions provided to any Governmental Authority subject in appropriate cases to confidentiality agreements to limit disclosure of such final copies of submissions to outside counsel and consultants.
 
 
 
-60-
 
 
(f)           Cyclone and Storm agree to promptly furnish the other party, subject in appropriate cases to appropriate confidentiality agreements to limit disclosure to outside lawyers and consultants, with such necessary information and reasonable assistance as such other party and its affiliates may reasonably request in connection with their preparation of necessary filings, registrations or submissions of information to any Governmental Authority, including, without limitation, any filings necessary or appropriate under the provisions of Antitrust Laws.
6.3           .
Reasonable Best Efforts
(a)           Cyclone and Storm shall use their reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all other actions and to do, or to cause to be done, all other things necessary and proper:
(i)           to ensure that all of the conditions to the obligations of Cyclone and Storm contained in Section 3.10(c) are satisfied on a timely basis, and in any event prior to the Outside Date;
(ii)           to otherwise consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated hereby;
(iii)           to avoid, remove and eliminate each and every impediment or objection under any Applicable Law that may be asserted by any Governmental Authority with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby that could have the effect of materially delaying or preventing the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or that could make the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby in accordance with the terms of this Agreement unlawful;
(iv)           to defend all lawsuits and other proceedings by or before any Governmental Authority or by any private party challenging this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and to prevent the entry of any court order, and to have vacated, lifted, reversed or overturned any injunction, decree, ruling, order or other action under any Antitrust Laws that would prevent, prohibit, or delay the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby; and
(v)           to enable the Closing to occur as soon as reasonably possible (and in any event no later than the Outside Date).
(b)           Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, in no event will Cyclone or Storm be obligated to propose or agree to accept any undertaking or condition, to enter into any consent decree, to make any divestiture, to accept any operational restriction, or take any other action where, as a result of such proposal, action, or agreement, Cyclone, Storm, US Venture Entity, Non-U.S. Venture Entity, or their respective subsidiaries or Affiliates would be foreclosed, precluded, or prohibited from, or in any way limited in, producing, operating, marketing, selling, offering for sale, deriving any revenue from, or otherwise owning the assets (including Intellectual Property assets or licenses), categories of assets, subsidiaries, Affiliates or the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business that are currently utilized to provide the products and services specified in .
Exhibit 6.3(b)
 
 
 
-61-
 
 
(c)           Subject to Section 6.3(b), reasonable best efforts of Cyclone and Storm specified in Section 6.3(a) shall include the following steps to eliminate any objection or impediment by any Governmental Authority that would prevent, prohibit or delay the consummation of the transaction:
(i)           selling or otherwise disposing of, or holding separate and agreeing to sell or otherwise disposing of, assets (including Intellectual Property assets or licenses), categories of assets, subsidiaries, Affiliates or the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business; and
(ii)           conducting the businesses of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business in a specified manner;
 
, , that in no event shall Cyclone or Storm be required to sell or otherwise dispose of, or hold separate and agree to sell or otherwise dispose of, assets (including Intellectual Property assets or licenses), categories of assets, subsidiaries, Affiliates of Cyclone or Storm other than the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business.  In the event that Cyclone, Storm or any of their respective Affiliates is required to sell or otherwise dispose of, or hold separate and agree to sell or otherwise dispose of, any assets of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, any proceeds from such sale or disposal shall be contributed to the Venture Entities at Closing.
provided
however
(d)           Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Cyclone and Storm shall each have the right, but not the obligation, to oppose by refusing to consent to, through litigation or otherwise any request, attempt or demand by any Governmental Authority or other person for any divestiture, hold separate condition or any other restriction with respect to any assets, businesses or product lines of either Cyclone or Storm. In the event Cyclone or Storm exercises its right to oppose through litigation, including any appeals, a request, attempt or demand by any Governmental Authority or other person as provided in the preceding sentence, and (i) such proceedings conclude prior to the Outside Date with a decree, injunction or order restricting or prohibiting the transaction or (ii) no decree, order or injunction has been issued in such proceedings prior to the Outside Date, then Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, shall take such actions, in a timely manner, as are necessary to achieve the clearance or approval of the Governmental Authority or other person prior to the Outside Date, that this obligation is subject to and does not modify Section 6.3(b).
provided
 
 
 
-62-
 
 
6.4           .  After obtaining knowledge thereof, each of Cyclone and Storm shall promptly give notice to the other party of any Claim or filed, threatened or contemplated litigation or any Casualty or Condemnation Loss or other event, occurrence or development that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually (including a series of related Claims, litigation, Casualty or Condemnation Losses or other events, occurrences or developments), a Material Adverse Effect on the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable.
Notice of Claims
6.5           .  Prior to the Closing and subject to Section 7.5, each of Cyclone and Storm shall give, and shall cause its Affiliates to give, subject to any confidentiality obligations, the other partys representatives full access at reasonable times to the premises, books, records, Contracts, assets and accounts of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable, and will make reasonably available to the other party and its representatives at a reasonable place and time, the officers and employees and independent accountants of such party for interviews to verify all information furnished to it and its representatives and to otherwise become familiar with the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable; that, in no case shall such access include the right to conduct any environmental testing or sampling.
Access to Businesses
provided
6.6           .  Subject to availability on commercially reasonable terms, each of Cyclone and Storm shall keep in full force and effect insurance policies with respect to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as the case may be, substantially similar in coverage and amounts to the insurance maintained with respect thereto on the date hereof until the Closing. In the event of a Casualty or Condemnation Loss, Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, shall restore the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, respectively, to substantially the same position it was in immediately prior to such Casualty or Condemnation Loss or pay over to the appropriate Venture Entity at Closing the insurance proceeds received in connection therewith.
Insurance
6.7           .
No Solicitation
(a)           Neither Cyclone, nor any of its officers, directors, employees, representatives or agents will, directly or indirectly, solicit, initiate or knowingly encourage any offer or proposal for, or any indication of interest in, or negotiate with a third party concerning, a business combination with, or the purchase and sale of, all or any material portion of the Cyclone Subsea Business (other than sales of inventory in the ordinary course of business) or any other transaction that would reasonably be expected to prevent, hinder or delay the Closing (a ); that this Section 6.7(a) shall not apply to any transaction or proposed transaction (or any discussions or other activities in respect thereof) that if consummated would constitute a Change of Control Event with respect to Cyclone (it being understood and agreed that the occurrence of any such transaction, proposed transaction, discussions or activities shall not relieve Cyclone of any of its obligations under this Agreement). Cyclone will advise Storm promptly (and in any event within one business day) should any third party contact it with respect to any Cyclone Subsea Proposal. Cyclone shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, immediately cease and cause to be terminated all existing discussions or negotiations with any parties with respect to any Cyclone Subsea Proposal and request the return or destruction of all confidential information provided to third parties (other than Storm) in connection with such discussions or negotiations.
Cyclone Subsea Proposal
provided
 
 
 
-63-
 
 
(b)           Neither Storm nor any of its officers, directors, employees, representatives or agents will, directly or indirectly, solicit, initiate or knowingly encourage any offer or proposal for, or any indication of interest in, or negotiate with a third party concerning, a business combination with, or the purchase and sale of, all or any material portion of the Storm Subsea Business (other than sales of inventory in the ordinary course of business) or any other transaction that would reasonably be expected to prevent, hinder or delay the Closing (a ); that this Section 6.7(b) shall not apply to any transaction or proposed transaction (or any discussions or other activities in respect thereof) that if consummated would constitute a Change of Control Event with respect to Storm (it being understood and agreed that the occurrence of any such transaction, proposed transaction, discussions or activities shall not relieve Storm of any of its obligations under this Agreement). Storm will advise Cyclone promptly (and in any event within one business day) should any third party contact it with respect to any Storm Subsea Proposal.  Storm shall, and shall cause its Affiliates to, immediately cease and cause to be terminated all existing discussions or negotiations with any parties with respect to any Storm Subsea Proposal and request the return or destruction of all confidential information provided to third parties (other than Cyclone) in connection with such discussions or negotiations.
Storm Subsea Proposal
provided
6.8           .  Prior to Closing, an Affiliate of Cyclone and an Affiliate of Storm US will incorporate US EmployCo, which will be owned 60% by Cyclone or an Affiliate thereof and 40% by Storm US or an Affiliate thereof; , that, if at least 30 days prior to the Closing, Cyclone notifies Storm that it will not be necessary or desirable to incorporate or utilize US EmployCo as part of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, the parties agree to amend this Agreement or otherwise disregard the references herein to US EmployCo and the provisions dedicated solely to it.
US EmployCo
provided
6.9           .  The parties will cooperate with one another, and will exchange such data and analyses as shall reasonably be necessary, in the development by each party of a plan describing, in reasonable detail, the reorganization steps it plans to undertake in anticipation of the Closing including the steps implementing the transfers of the Cyclone Subsea Business and the Storm Subsea Business to the Venture Entities (each, a ).  No later than February 1, 2013, each of Cyclone and Storm (in such capacity, the ) shall deliver to the other party its proposed Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan.  The parties shall cooperate with one another in each partys review of the other partys Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan (in such capacity, the ).  The Proposing Party shall provide the Reviewing Party such information and data as the Reviewing Party may reasonably request with respect to the Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan, including any analyses or other background materials relating to the assumptions, benefits, costs and risks considered in connection with the development of the Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan.  If requested by the Reviewing Party, the Proposing Party will consider in good faith any suggested changes to the Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan the Reviewing Party reasonably believes to be in the best interests of the Venture Entities or the Reviewing Party, taking into account the benefits to, or costs or risks to be avoided by, the Venture Entities or the Reviewing Party as well as any additional costs and risks to the Proposing Party.  The parties shall cooperate in good faith to finalize the Pre-Closing Reorganization Plans as promptly as practicable after delivery of each partys proposed Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan, but in no event later than March 1, 2013.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan shall not include the direct or indirect transfer (by merger, consolidation, equity transfer, sale of all or substantially all assets or otherwise) to the Venture of any entity that is reasonably determined in good faith by the Reviewing Party to (i) create a risk of a liability or condition that is likely to cause a Material Adverse Effect on the Venture or the Reviewing Party, (ii) give rise to liabilities (existing, conditional or otherwise) to the Venture or the Reviewing Party that substantially outweigh the benefits to the Proposing Party of transferring such entity to the Venture or (iii) expose the Venture to actual or potential liabilities associated with the incident involving the fire and explosion that occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig on or about April 20, 2010, in each case without the approval of the Reviewing Party in its sole discretion.
R
eorganizations
Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan
Proposing Party
Reviewing Party
Deepwater Horizon
 
 
 
-64-
 
 
6.10         .  The parties will cooperate with one another, and will exchange such data and valuation analyses prepared by independent valuation firms as shall reasonably be necessary, in order to determine in good faith and mutually agree upon the amount of the US Purchase Price, the Non-U.S. Purchase Price, the US Exchanged Interest and the Non-U.S. Exchanged Interest, in each case, based on the relative fair market values of the portions of the Cyclone Subsea Business and the Storm Subsea Business to be contributed to each of the Venture Entities, provided that the sum of the US Purchase Price and the Non-U.S. Purchase Price shall equal $600 million.  If the parties are unable to agree upon the amount of the US Purchase Price, the Non-U.S. Purchase Price, the US Exchanged Interest and the Non-U.S. Exchanged Interest by March 1, 2013, the parties shall submit the matters in dispute to the Independent Accountants (which may be different than the Independent Accountants chosen for purposes of Section 3.6(b)) for resolution under procedures similar to those described in Section 3.6(b).
Allocation of Cash at Closing
6.11         .
Accounts Receivable Holdback
(a)           Cyclone shall be permitted to hold back accounts receivable from the assets Cyclone is otherwise required to contribute to US Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(i)(B). Any receivables so retained by Cyclone shall be taken into account as current assets for purposes of calculating Cyclone Net Working Capital pursuant to Section 3.3(a).
(b)           If Cyclone retains accounts receivable pursuant to Section 6.11(a), Storm shall contribute to US Venture Entity a portion of the US Purchase Price in an amount equal to the book value of such accounts receivable, instead of paying such portion of the US Purchase Price to Cyclone.  Any cash so contributed by Storm to US Venture Entity shall not be taken into account as a current asset for purposes of calculating Storm Net Working Capital pursuant to Section 3.3(b).
 
 
 
-65-
 
 
ARTICLE 7.
OTHER COVENANTS
7.1           .  After the Closing, each Venture Entity shall procure and maintain adequate insurance covering its operations and assets. Coverage may be provided under master policies of Cyclone on terms to be agreed by each Venture Entity and Cyclone.
Insurance
7.2           .  Each party agrees that it is responsible for any special notification required to be given to its creditors under the bulk sales laws and any other similar laws in any applicable jurisdiction in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Each party agrees promptly and diligently to pay and discharge when due or to contest and litigate all Claims of its respective creditors that are asserted against any party or any of the Venture Entities by reason of any asserted noncompliance with any such bulk sales laws, and to indemnify and hold the other parties and the Venture Entities harmless therefrom.
Bulk Sales Acts
7.3           .
Expenses
(a)           Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement and whether or not the Closing occurs, Cyclone or its Affiliates shall pay (i) all expenses incurred by or on behalf of Cyclone or any of its Affiliates in connection with the preparation, authorization and execution of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents, the formation of the Venture Entities, and the conveyance, transfer, assignment and delivery of the Cyclone Subsea Business, including all fees and expenses of agents, representatives, counsel and accountants, (ii) all Transfer Taxes arising out of the conveyance, transfer, assignment and delivery of the Cyclone Subsea Business to the Venture Entities pursuant to Sections 2.1(b) and (c) and (iii) all amounts payable with respect to any claim for brokerage or finders fees or other commissions with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement based in any way on any agreement, arrangement or understanding made by Cyclone or any of its Affiliates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Closing occurs, the Venture Entities shall pay, or reimburse Cyclone or its Affiliates with respect to, all Transfer Taxes set forth in clause (ii) in the immediately preceding sentence (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not include any Transfer Taxes arising from or relating to any internal reorganization steps reflected in Cyclones Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan) in excess of $10 million.
(b)           Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement and whether or not the Closing occurs, Storm or its Affiliates shall pay (i) all expenses incurred by or on behalf of Storm or any of its Affiliates in connection with the preparation, authorization and execution of this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents, the formation of the Venture Entities, and the conveyance, transfer, assignment and delivery of the Storm Subsea Business, including all fees and expenses of agents, representatives, counsel and accountants, (ii) all Transfer Taxes arising out of the conveyance, transfer, assignment and delivery of the Storm Subsea Business to the Venture Entities pursuant to Sections 2.1(b) and (c) and (iii) all amounts payable with respect to any claim for brokerage or finders fees or other commissions with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement based in any way on any agreement, arrangement or understanding made by Storm or any of its Affiliates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Closing occurs, the Venture Entities shall pay, or reimburse Storm or its Affiliates with respect to, all such Transfer Taxes set forth in clause (ii) in the immediately preceding sentence (which, for the avoidance of doubt, shall not include any Transfer Taxes arising from or relating to any internal reorganization steps reflected in Storms Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan) in excess of $10 million.
 
 
 
-66-
 
 
(c)           The Venture Entities shall pay, or reimburse, Cyclone or its Affiliates or Storm or its Affiliates, as applicable, with respect to any VAT arising out of the conveyance, transfer, assignment and delivery of the Cyclone Subsea Business and the Storm Subsea Business to the Venture Entities, but only to the extent that the Venture Entities are able to recover a refund of such VAT from the applicable Governmental Authority.
7.4           .
Books of Account and Special Rights
(a)           As indicated above, the assets transferred to the Venture Entities by Cyclone include Cyclones rights, if any, to the trade names, trademarks and trade secrets used or held for use primarily in connection with or otherwise primarily related to the Cyclone Subsea Business, other than the Cyclone Retained IP.  Except as provided below, no Venture Entity shall receive or utilize any rights or interest in the names of Cyclone Incorporated or any of its Affiliates or any other name, logo, abbreviation, word or combination thereof of similar import. It is hereby agreed that the Venture Entities may utilize, at their sole option, the following items:
(i)           Without limitation of time, the Venture Entities may use manuals, technical specifications, descriptive literature and catalogs in existence at the Closing Date and bearing Cyclones name or marks, that the name and marks are stamped or overprinted with that Venture Entitys own name or marks;
provided
(ii)           The Venture Entities shall have a period of 12 months after the Closing Date within which to use the names and marks of Cyclone; that the Venture Entities may utilize such names and marks as part of a product name or logo for products sold by the Venture Entities without regard to such time limitation;
provided
(iii)           The Venture Entities shall have the right to sell any of the inventories or products that are in bags or other containers bearing any of the names or marks of Cyclone, so long as the inventories or products produced after 120days following the Closing Date are not packaged in bags or other containers that bear such names or marks; and
 
(iv)           Cyclone hereby agrees to allow the Venture Entities to utilize in their respective businesses, both within the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, the phrase a Cyclone/Storm company or phrases of substantially similar content. It is agreed that the Venture Entities may use said phrase in any advertising material, letterhead, packaging or on any other necessary or desirable signs, notices or printed material.
(b)           As indicated above, the assets transferred to the Venture Entities by Storm include Storms rights, if any, to the trade names, trademarks and trade secrets used or held for use primarily in connection with or otherwise primarily related to the Storm Subsea Business, other than the Storm Retained IP.  Except as provided below, no Venture Entity shall receive or utilize any rights or interest in the names of Storm Limited or any of its Affiliates or any other name, logo, abbreviation, word or combination thereof of similar import. It is hereby agreed that the Venture Entities may utilize, at their sole option, the following items:
 
 
 
-67-
 
 
(i)           Without limitation of time, the Venture Entities may use manuals, technical specifications, descriptive literature and catalogs in existence at the Closing Date and bearing Storms name or marks, that the name and marks are stamped or overprinted with that Venture Entitys own name or marks;
provided
(ii)           The Venture Entities shall have a period of 12 months after the Closing Date within which to use the names and marks of Storm that are set forth in of the Storm Disclosure Letter;
Section 7.4(b)(ii)
(iii)           The Venture Entities shall have the right to sell any of the inventories or products that are in bags or other containers bearing any of the names or marks of Storm, so long as the inventories or products produced after 120 days following the Closing Date are not packaged in bags or other containers that bear such names or marks; and
(iv)           Storm hereby agrees to allow the Venture Entities to utilize in their respective businesses, both within the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions, the phrase a Cyclone/Storm company or phrases of substantially similar content. It is agreed that the Venture Entities may use said phrase in any advertising material, letterhead, packaging or on any other necessary or desirable signs, notices or printed material.
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Section 7.4(b) to the contrary, the parties agree to cause the Venture Entities to comply with the provisions of that certain Share Purchase Agreement dated as of June 28, 2011 by and between M-I SWACO Norge AS and Frank Mohn AS, including with respect to the use of the Framo name and related marks.
(c)           Cyclone and Storm will transfer to the appropriate Venture Entity all of the following relating primarily to the Cyclone Subsea Business and Storm Subsea Business, respectively: (i) all sales and business records, files, product specifications, drawings and correspondence; (ii) engineering, manufacturing, maintenance, operating and production records; (iii) personnel records of Cyclone Transferred Employees and Storm Transferred Employees, including medical records of each such employee to the extent permitted by Applicable Law; (iv) customer lists; (v) sales and marketing material; (vi) credit records of customers; (vii) notebooks and log books; (viii) marketing or other studies; and (ix) all other books and records (including accounting and tax records); excluding, however, (A) all records prepared in connection with or related to the negotiation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Transaction Documents and (B) any of the foregoing that are the subject of binding confidentiality agreements with non-Affiliates of Cyclone or Storm restricting their conveyance or disclosure to the Venture Entities; , that Cyclone or Storm shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the right from such non-Affiliates either to disclose such records to the Venture Entities or to transfer such confidentiality agreements to the Venture Entities. Cyclone and Storm may retain copies of tax, legal and accounting records necessary to perform their respective legal obligations. Cyclone and Storm further agree to cooperate with the Venture Entities to make available from time to time all other books and records relating to the Cyclone Subsea Business and Storm Subsea Business, respectively, for any valid purpose. Notwithstanding the foregoing, neither Cyclone, Storm, nor any of their respective Affiliates shall be required to transfer any tax records to any Venture Entity unless such records are reasonably necessary for the Venture Entity to determine its liability for Taxes or to satisfy other requirements imposed on the Venture Entity by an applicable Governmental Authority. Cyclone and Storm acknowledge the mutual expectation that selected tax records of administrative value to Venture Entities will contain confidential information relating to, respectively, the Cyclone Non-Transferred Businesses and the Storm Non-Transferred Businesses. Cyclone and Storm agree to cooperate in identifying one or more means to convey the information of value to the Venture Entity, while assuring the maintenance of the confidentiality of the information relating to the Non-Transferred Businesses.
provided, however
 
 
 
-68-
 
 
7.5           .
Firewalls; Joint Facilities
(a)           Cyclone shall not exchange, disclose, discuss or otherwise make available to Storm or any of the Venture Entities any Non-Public Information of Cyclone exclusively relating to any Non-Transferred Cyclone Businesses or any Non-Transferred Cyclone Assets.
(b)           Storm shall not exchange, disclose, discuss or otherwise make available to Cyclone or any of the Venture Entities any Non-Public Information of Storm exclusively relating to any Non-Transferred Storm Business or any Non-Transferred Storm Assets.
(c)           Cyclone and Storm agree that no later than 60 days after the Closing, they will cause the Venture Entities to adopt a Confidential Information Policy for each Cyclone Joint Facility and Storm Joint Facility.  Such Confidential Information Policies will contain (i) policies and procedures for handling confidential information of the Venture Entities and its customers to protect such information from disclosure, (ii) policies and procedures based on the specific circumstances of each such facility to ensure that such confidential information is protected from inadvertent disclosure to the other employees, contractors and agents of Storm and Cyclone utilizing such facility and (iii) specification of persons responsible for implementing, monitoring and training with respect to such Confidential Information Policies.
7.6           .  There shall be an annual audit of the aggregate operations and businesses of the Venture Entities, taken as a whole, conducted by Ernst & Young LLP, or whatever independent auditor Cyclone is then using, which shall be completed within 120 days after the end of the applicable calendar year, the first of which shall be conducted with respect to the period from the Closing Date through the end of the calendar year in which the Closing occurs. The parties agree to, and agree to cause each of the Venture Entities to, cooperate with such independent auditor with respect to such audits and to make the results thereof available to Cyclone and Storm.
Venture Entity Audits
 
 
 
-69-
 
 
7.7           .
Shared Services; Transition Services; Cyclone Supply Agreement
(a)           Cyclone and Storm shall make available certain services to the Venture Entities, and the Venture Entities shall make certain services available to Cyclone and Storm, pursuant to the Shared Services Agreement.
(b)           Cyclone and Storm shall make available certain services to the Venture Entities, and the Venture Entities shall make certain services available to Cyclone and Storm pursuant to the Transition Services Agreement.
(c)           Cyclone shall supply certain products to the Venture Entities pursuant to the Cyclone Supply Agreement.
(d)           Storm shall supply certain products to the Venture Entities pursuant to the Storm Supply Agreement.
7.8           .
[Reserved]
7.9           .  US Venture Entity will take no action inconsistent with the classification of US Venture Entity as a partnership under Section 7701 of the Code. US Venture Entity will not create, and will cause its subsidiaries to refrain from creating, any entities owned, directly or indirectly, by US Venture Entity that would be classified under Section 7701 of the Code as other than branches or partnerships, unless such action is agreed to by both Venture Owners of US Venture Entity. Such prohibited actions shall include the making of an election under Section 7701 of the Code for an entity to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes.
Form of Venture Entities
7.10         
Venture Entity Contracts
.
 
(a)           So long as Cyclone or Storm, as applicable, maintains a direct or indirect ownership interest in the Venture Entities, Cyclone and Storm and their respective Affiliates shall have the ability to contract with the Venture Entities or Affiliates of the Venture Entities, and the Venture Entities or such Affiliates shall fully consider in good faith any proposals to so contract, on an arms length basis, for access to all products and services of the Venture Entities, including services to support businesses of Cyclone or Storm.  After the Closing, Cyclone, Storm and the Venture Entities will enter into good faith negotiations to cause the Venture Entities to be a preferred provider (subject to customer requirements) of products and services in the Subsea Business for Cyclone and Storm; , that Cyclone and Storm shall be permitted to source such products and services from other vendors if the Venture Entities cannot meet Cyclones or Storms specifications or delivery requirements.  After the Closing, and pursuant to a separate agreement to be entered into at Closing, the Venture Entities shall continue to (a) provide products and services to Storm and its Affiliates that are currently being provided by the Storm Subsea Business and (b) provide products and services to Cyclone and its Affiliates that are currently being provided by the Cyclone Subsea Business, in each case on pricing that is consistent with the current transfer pricing for such products and services (which pricing will be reviewed by the parties on an annual basis).
provided
 
 
 
-70-
 
 
(b)           So long as Cyclone or Storm, as applicable, maintains a direct or indirect ownership interest in the Venture Entities, the Venture Entities or Affiliates of the Venture Entities shall have the ability to contract with Cyclone and Storm and their respective Affiliates, and Cyclone and Storm and their respective Affiliates shall fully consider in good faith any proposals to so contract, on an arms length basis, for access to all products and services of Cyclone and Storm and their respective Affiliates.  After the Closing, Cyclone, Storm and the Venture Entities will enter into good faith negotiations to cause each of Cyclone and Storm to be a preferred provider (subject to customer requirements) of its products and services for the Venture Entities; , that the Venture Entities shall be permitted to source such products and services from other vendors if Cyclone or Storm and their respective Affiliates cannot meet the Venture Entities specifications or delivery requirements.
provided
7.11         .
Venture Entity Distributions; Allocations; Section 754 Election
(a)           Each Venture Entity shall, at the request of any Venture Owner (which request can only be made twice each calendar year), and after due review of the prior fiscal year and discussion by the Committee, make a distribution to its Venture Owners for the payment of Taxes and, in addition, each party can elect a distribution of the free cash flow of the prior fiscal year of the Venture Entities and their subsidiaries as reflected on the most recently prepared financial statements before the date of the determination of the amount of the distribution, subject to any legal restrictions.  To the extent the distribution of free cash flow will require the Venture Owners of any Venture Entity to make a cash capital contribution or a Venture Entity to separately finance through debt or equity the planned uses of cash (net of projected sources of cash) so reflected in the following six months, then the consent of both Cyclone and Storm will be required with respect to any such distribution. The business plan, forecast and cash flow projections shall be determined by fiscally prudent management practices in a capital intensive industry. None of the Venture Owners nor their respective Affiliates shall have liability to any Venture Owner, any Venture Entity or their respective Affiliates for the effect that a distribution has on the operations, financial results, financial condition or cash flow of any Venture Owner, Venture Entity or their respective Affiliates. All distributions to the Venture Owners under this Section 7.11 shall be made pro rata.
(b)           US Venture Entity shall elect the traditional method for allocating taxable income and loss under Section 704(c) of the Code.
(c)           US Venture Entity shall make an election under Section 754 of the Code to adjust the basis of its property in the manner provided in Sections 734(b) and 743(b) of the Code.
7.12         .  The parties hereby agree that neither Venture Owner Parent shall utilize its direct or indirect veto power to prevent the other Venture Owner Parent and its Affiliates from utilizing the Ventures products and services in joint bids, subcontracts and similar contracts with the customers of the Venture and its Affiliates or of the Venture Owner Parent and its Affiliates; , that the Venture has determined that any such joint bid, subcontract or similar contract is in the commercial interests of the Venture.
Veto Powers
provided
 
 
 
-71-
 
 
7.13         .  Each of the parties agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to take, or cause to be taken by their respective Affiliates, all actions and to do, or cause to be done by their respective Affiliates, all things necessary, proper or advisable to, subject to Section 6.2: (a) obtain and, when appropriate, record as promptly as possible any consents, licenses, permits or other Governmental Approvals not obtained prior to Closing deemed necessary or beneficial in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and the operation of the Subsea Business after the Closing; (b) defend any lawsuits or other legal proceedings, whether judicial or administrative, calling into question this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby; and (c) furnish to the other parties such documentation, information and assistance as reasonably may be requested in connection with the foregoing. The parties also agree from time to time to (1) execute, deliver and, when appropriate, record any such documents of transfer, conveyance and assignment in mutually agreeable form in addition to those referenced in Section 3.2 and (2) take such other actions as the parties shall agree are necessary or appropriate to accomplish the transactions contemplated hereby, including the grants of licenses. The parties expressly agree that any expenses incurred by a party in connection with this Section 7.13 shall be paid by the party incurring the expense and no reimbursement shall be sought from the requesting party.
Further Assurances
7.14         .  The Venture Entities shall provide to Cyclone and Storm combined financial information at least quarterly.
Quarterly Financials
7.15         .
Failure of Consent; Joint Contracts and Joint Permits
(a)           .  If there are prohibitions against, or conditions to, the conveyance of any of the Cyclone Transferred Assets or Storm Transferred Assets, or the assumption of any of the Cyclone Assumed Liabilities or Storm Assumed Liabilities, without the prior written consent of third parties, including Governmental Authorities, which if not satisfied would result in a material breach of such prohibitions or conditions or would give an outside party the right to terminate or limit any material right of a Venture Entity with respect to any such asset or liability (a ), then, notwithstanding any provision contained in this Agreement to the contrary, the transfer of title to, or interest in, such Cyclone Transferred Asset or Storm Transferred Asset (a ) or the assumption of such Cyclone Assumed Liability or Storm Assumed Liability (a ) pursuant to this Agreement shall not become effective unless and until such Restriction is satisfied, waived or no longer applies. When and if such a Restriction is so satisfied, waived or no longer applies, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law and any applicable contractual provisions, the assignment of the Restricted Asset or the assumption of the Restricted Liability, as the case may be, subject thereto shall become effective automatically as of the Closing Date, without further action on the part of Cyclone, Storm or the applicable Venture Entity and without payment of further consideration. Each of Cyclone, Storm and the Venture Entities agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain satisfaction of any Restriction on a timely basis post-Closing; , that, except as set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter or of the Storm Disclosure Letter, as applicable, neither Cyclone nor Storm shall be obligated to pay any amount as consideration therefor to, or make any financial accommodation in favor of, or commence litigation against, the third party from whom such consent is requested. To the extent that any Restricted Asset exists, Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, agrees to use its commercially reasonable efforts (without infringing upon the legal rights of such third party or outside party or violating any Applicable Law) to provide the applicable Venture Entity with the equivalent asset or benefits thereof, or to contribute to the applicable Venture Entity equivalent economic value, at no additional cost to the applicable Venture Entity (other than the assumption of any related Restricted Liability), effective as of the Closing Date. To the extent a Restricted Liability exists, the applicable Venture Entity agrees (without infringing upon the legal rights of such third party or outside party or violating any Applicable Law) to bear the economic burden thereof, or to contribute to Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, equivalent economic value, at no additional cost to Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, effective as of the Closing Date. If a Restricted Asset consists of a Contract, each of Cyclone and Storm agrees (without infringing upon the legal rights of such third party or outside party or violating any Applicable Law) to exercise its rights under such Contract at the direction and/or for the benefit of the applicable Venture Entity.
Failure of Consent
Restriction
Restricted Asset
Restricted Liability
provided, however
Section 7.15
Section 7.15
 
 
 
-72-
 
 
(b)           .  With respect to any contract, agreement, purchase order or other arrangement relating in part to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business and in part to Non-Transferred Cyclone Businesses or Non-Transferred Storm Businesses (the ), which would otherwise be transferred hereby that Cyclone, Storm or their respective Affiliates are unable to modify prior to the Closing Date without materially affecting the economic value to Cyclone, Storm, the Venture Entities or one or more of their respective Affiliates so that the portion thereof pertaining to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business was segregated, the transferring party, if permitted by the terms of the Joint Contract, shall continue such Joint Contract in effect until its stated expiration without regard to any available renewal options. The benefits and obligations under such Joint Contract to the extent relating to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business, as applicable, shall be for the account of the applicable Venture Entity, and the remaining benefits and obligations shall be retained by the transferring entity. Each of Cyclone, Storm, the Venture Entities and their respective Affiliates that are parties to any Joint Contract shall perform its respective obligations thereunder so as not to create a default. Neither the transferring party nor the transferee party under a Joint Contract will be obligated to extend credit to the other party. Each party will indemnify, defend and hold harmless the other party from the consequences of any default by it (or its Affiliates) under any Joint Contract. Unless both parties desire to maintain the same Joint Contract, the parties shall cooperate with one another after the Closing to obtain separate contracts for the transferor or transferee on the most advantageous terms to each that may be available.
Joint Contracts
Joint Contracts
 
 
 
-73-
 
 
(c)           .  With respect to Governmental Approvals that relate in part to the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business and in part to the Non-Transferred Cyclone Businesses or the Non-Transferred Storm Businesses (the ), (i) Cyclone, Storm or one of their respective Affiliates (as the case may be) shall, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, continue to be the holder of all such Joint Permits for the joint benefit of both Cyclone, Storm or one of their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the relevant Venture Entity, on the other hand, for the earlier of a period of 180 days after the Closing Date or the date on which the relevant Venture Entity obtains a separate Governmental Approval covering the relevant operations of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business; (ii) Cyclone, Storm, the Venture Entities and their respective Affiliates shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain, and shall reasonably cooperate in seeking, separate Governmental Approvals to be held by the relevant Venture Entity for any operations of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business that are otherwise covered by any Joint Permits; and (iii) if any such separate Governmental Approval can not be obtained within such period or if obtaining any such separate Governmental Approval would be reasonably likely to have materially adverse consequences for Cyclone, Storm, the Venture Entities or any of their respective Affiliates, then the parties whose operations are covered by the relevant Joint Permit shall reasonably negotiate and enter into any additional agreements that may be necessary to permit such operations as conducted on the Closing Date that are the subject of such Joint Permit until such separate Governmental Approval can be reasonably obtained. With respect to any Governmental Approvals required for the operation of the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Storm Subsea Business on the Closing Date that are not Joint Permits and that Cyclone, Storm or one of their respective Affiliates (as the case may be) was not able to assign to a Venture Entity at the Closing or as to which a Venture Entity has not then obtained a reasonably suitable replacement Governmental Approval (each, a ), Cyclone, Storm or one of their respective Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, continue to be the holder on a provisional basis of such Non-Transferred Permit for a period of 180 days after the Closing Date; , that the Venture Entity shall undertake commercially reasonable efforts to obtain a reasonably suitable replacement Government Approval as soon as practicable; , that Cyclone, Storm and their respective Affiliates shall cooperate with the Venture Entities in obtaining such replacement Governmental Approvals. Each party shall comply with all terms and conditions of, and be responsible for, all obligations under all Joint Permits pertaining to its respective business or the portion of the Joint Facility that it operates, and the Venture Entities shall further comply with all terms and conditions of, and be responsible for, all obligations under any Non-Transferred Permit being held pursuant to the preceding sentence by Cyclone, Storm or one of their respective Affiliates on the behalf of any Venture Entity. Cyclone, Storm and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Venture Entities and their respective Affiliates, on the other hand, shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the other party and its Affiliates from and against any violation of or liability under any Joint Permit resulting from the acts or omissions of such party or its Affiliates under such Joint Permit, and the Venture Entities shall further indemnify, defend and hold harmless Cyclone, Storm and their respective Affiliates from and against (1) any violation of or liability under any Non-Transferred Permit being held by Cyclone, Storm or one of their respective Affiliates on the behalf of any Venture Entity and (2) any liabilities, costs, expenses or obligations associated with the failure of any Venture Entity to obtain any  Governmental Approval to replace any Joint Permit or any Non-Transferred Permit or otherwise associated with the holding of any Joint Permit or Non-Transferred Permit on the Venture Entitys behalf (including the need to increase or install equipment to avoid exceeding any permit limitations or the need to otherwise alter any permit conditions).  The parties shall cooperate in seeking any amendment to any Joint Permit reasonably requested by another party, the other party would not reasonably be expected to be adversely affected. The requesting party shall bear all reasonable costs incurred by it and the other party in such efforts.
Joint Permits
Joint
 
Permits
Non-Transferred Permit
provided
provided
further
provided
 
 
 
-74-
 
 
7.16         .  In connection with transactions involving members of the Venture Group, none of the parties, their respective Affiliates, agents or members of the Venture Group will make any Prohibited Payment. The parties acknowledge that a Prohibited Payment does not include the payment, offer, or promise to pay or authorization of an offer, promise or payment that is a reasonable and bona fide expenditure, such as travel and lodging expenses, incurred by or on behalf of the Public Official and is directly related to the promotion, demonstration, or explanation of products or services, or to the execution or performance of a contract with a government or agency thereof. All payments to or on behalf of Public Officials must be recorded in the books and records of the relevant entity so that it properly reflects the transaction. Each party agrees that if it knows of any information indicating there may have been a Prohibited Payment or an otherwise unlawful payment in connection with any business transaction relating to the Venture, or breach of any representation in Sections 4.22 or 5.22 of this Agreement, the party will immediately provide any relevant information to the other party. Each Venture Entity and US EmployCo will adopt, for its own benefit and the benefit of the other members of the Venture Group that it controls, compliance policies, procedures and controls pertaining to the FCPA, the UK Bribery Act and similar laws applicable to the Venture Group in other countries. The scope of the audit in Section 7.6 may, at a partys request, include a review of the Venture Groups compliance with such policies, procedures and controls. The respective businesses of the Venture Group shall keep books, records, and accounts pertaining to their respective businesses in reasonable detail, which accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of their respective businesses. In connection with transactions involving members of the Venture Group, each party and their respective Affiliates, agents and members of the Venture Group will comply with all Applicable Laws relating to export control and trade sanctions, embargoes and money laundering.
Prohibited Payments
7.17         .
Standstill
(a)           Each Venture Owner Parent agrees that so long as it or one of its Affiliates continues to hold an ownership interest in any of the Venture Entities, unless it shall have been specifically invited in writing by the other Venture Owner Parent, neither it nor any of its Affiliates will in any manner, directly or indirectly: (i) acquire, offer to acquire (including from the stockholders of the other Venture Owner Parent), agree to acquire or make a proposal to acquire (including from the stockholders of the other Venture Owner Parent), by purchase or otherwise, any securities, or direct or indirect rights to acquire any securities, of the other Venture Owner Parent or any subsidiary of the other Venture Owner Parent or any successor to, or Person in control of, the other Venture Owner Parent, or any assets or property of the other Venture Owner Parent or any subsidiary or division of the other Venture Owner Parent or of any such successor or controlling Person; (ii) make or in any way participate in, any solicitation of proxies (as such terms are used in the rules of the SEC) to vote, or seek to advise or influence any Person with respect to voting of, any voting securities of the other Venture Owner Parent or any of its subsidiaries; (iii) make any public announcement or statement with respect to, or solicit or submit a proposal for, or offer of (with or without conditions) any merger, business combination, recapitalization, reorganization, purchase of a material portion of the assets or properties of the other Venture Owner Parent or its subsidiaries or other similar extraordinary transaction involving the other Venture Owner Parent, its subsidiaries or any of their respective securities; (iv) form, join or in any way participate in a group (as defined in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) with respect to any securities of the other Venture Owner Parent or any of its subsidiaries or otherwise in connection with any of the foregoing; (v) otherwise act, alone or in concert with others to seek to control or influence the management, board of directors or policies of the other Venture Owner Parent or any of its subsidiaries; (vi) take any action challenging the validity or enforceability of this Section 7.17, or disclose any intention, plan or arrangement inconsistent with any of the foregoing; (vii) advise, assist, encourage or direct any Person to do, or to advise, assist, encourage or direct any other Person to do, any of the foregoing; (viii) take any action that could reasonably be expected to require the other Venture Owner Parent to make a public announcement or statement regarding the possibility of any of the events described in this paragraph; or (ix) request the other Venture Owner Parent or any of the representatives or agents of the other Venture Owner Parent, directly or indirectly, to amend or waive any provision of this Section 7.17; , that none of the foregoing shall prohibit either Venture Owner Parent from making confidential proposals to the board of directors or chief executive officer of the other Venture Owner Parent; , that (1) any such proposals shall be made in a manner that shall not require the public disclosure of such proposals by any Person and (2) any such proposals shall not be publicly disclosed by such Venture Owner Parent making such proposals.
provided
provided, further
 
 
 
-75-
 
 
(b)           Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the restrictions contained in Section 7.17(a) shall cease to apply to a Venture Owner Parent from and after the first occurrence of any of the following: (i) the execution of a definitive agreement by the other Venture Owner Parent regarding a transaction that, if consummated, would constitute or lead to a Change of Control Event with respect to such other Venture Owner Parent; (ii) the public announcement by the other Venture Owner Parent of its intention to enter into a definitive agreement with a third party regarding a transaction that, if consummated, would constitute or lead to a Change of Control Event with respect to such other Venture Owner Parent; (iii) the Venture Owner Parents receipt of a Change of Control Notice from the other Venture Owner Parent in accordance with Section 11.1(a); (iv) the public announcement by a third party of (1) a bona fide proposal to effect a Change of Control Event with respect to the other Venture Owner Parent, or (2) its intent to commence a tender or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute such a Change of Control Event, or to commence a solicitation of proxies with respect to voting securities of the other Venture Owner Parent that, if successful, would constitute or lead to a Change of Control Event; (v) the sale or transfer by the Venture Owner Parent of all of its interests in the Venture to a third party (including the other Venture Owner Parent and/or its Affiliates); or (vi) the dissolution of the Venture.
(c)           Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if a Venture Owner Parent shall make a bona fide confidential written proposal to the other Venture Owner Parent as contemplated by the first proviso contained in Section 7.17(a), the restrictions contained in Section 7.17(a) shall be suspended and shall not apply to actions taken with respect to the other Venture Owner Parent during the 12-month period commencing on the date that is 12 months following the date on which the first Venture Owner Parent delivered such confidential proposal to the other Venture Owner Parent, which period shall be extended if actions that would be restricted by Section 7.17(a) are publicly continuing at the end of such 12-month period until the acquisition attempt being pursued is either completed or abandoned.
 
 
 
-76-
 
 
(d)           Each Venture Owner Parent agrees that so long as the obligations under the foregoing provisions of this Section 7.17 apply to it, it will not enter into any agreement that would prohibit or restrict discussions with the other Venture Owner Parent regarding a Change of Control Event or the entering into a definitive agreement regarding a transaction that, if consummated, would constitute or lead to a Change of Control Event (other than any such restrictions or prohibitions contained in a definitive agreement regarding a transaction that, if consummated, would constitute or lead to a Change of Control Event).
7.18         .  Each of Cyclone and Storm agrees that so long as it or one of its Affiliates continues to hold an ownership interest in any of the Venture Entities and for a period of 12 monthsthereafter, it will not, nor will it permit its Affiliates to, directly or indirectly, solicit for employment without the consent of the other Venture Owner Parent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) (a) any officer, skilled engineer or any other employee with the title of Director or Vice President or more senior of the Venture Entities, (b) any member of the Committee of the Venture Entities or (c) any officer, skilled engineer or any other employee with the title of Director or Vice President or more senior, in each case of the other Venture Owner Parent or its Affiliates.  Each Venture Owner Parent agrees to provide to the other Venture Owner Parent, upon the request of the other Venture Owner Parent (not to exceed two requests per calendar year), a list of its employees to which clause (c) of the immediately preceding sentence applies as of the date of such list.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Venture Owner Parent may, and may permit its respective Affiliates to, directly or indirectly, solicit for employment any officer or employee of the Venture Entities who was previously employed by such Venture Owner Parent or one of its Affiliates. The foregoing restrictions shall not preclude either Venture Owner Parent or their respective Affiliates from soliciting any person who (i) has had his or her employment terminated by the Venture Entities or the other Venture Owner Parent prior to commencement of employment discussions between a Venture Owner Parent and such officer or employee or (ii) responds to any general solicitation placed by such Venture Owner Parent (including, without limitation, any recruitment efforts conducted by any recruitment agency; that neither such Venture Owner Parent nor any of its Affiliates have directed such recruitment efforts at such person).
Non-Solicit
 
provided
7.19         .  The parties agree to discuss whether the transactions contemplated hereby can be closed in stages, with certain jurisdictions closing in an initial stage and other jurisdictions closing after the initial stage.  In the event that the parties cannot mutually agree within 60 days after the date of this Agreement which jurisdictions will be included in the initial stage closing and which jurisdictions will be closed after the initial stage closing, the Outside Date will no longer be August 14, 2013 and will instead be November 14, 2013.  If the parties do mutually agree within 60 days after the date of this Agreement which jurisdictions will be included in the initial stage closing and which jurisdictions will be closed after the initial stage closing, the parties will implement any amendments to this Agreement or other changes as necessary or appropriate to effect such agreed staged closings.
Staged Closings
 
 
-77-
 
 
ARTICLE 8.
LIABILITIES AND INDEMNIFICATION
8.1           .
Venture Entity and US EmployCo Indemnification
(a)           Except to the extent provided in Sections 8.2 and 8.3, each Venture Entity and its subsidiaries and US EmployCo, jointly and severally, shall be responsible for and shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Cyclone Indemnified Persons and the Storm Indemnified Persons from and against and in respect of any Claim or Loss (other than any Claim or Loss relating to Taxes, for which indemnification provisions are set forth in Section 8.4) arising out of any breach or default in performance by the Venture Entities or US EmployCo of any of the obligations that are to be performed or assumed by them under the Transaction Documents or pursuant to their Charter Documents and any and all Claims or Losses (other than any Claim or Loss relating to Taxes, for which indemnification provisions are set forth in Section 8.4), direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or exemplary, resulting from or connected with (i) any failure by a Venture Entity or US EmployCo to duly pay, perform or discharge the Cyclone Transferred Liabilities or the Storm Transferred Liabilities, (ii) any payment by a Cyclone Indemnified Person or a Storm Indemnified Person as a guarantor or obligor of any obligation retained by Cyclone or Storm for and on behalf of a Venture Entity, including those Guarantees, bid and performance bonds, customs guarantees, surety bonds and letters of credit listed in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter or the Storm Disclosure Letter, (iii) any Venture Environmental Liability, or (iv) any other aspect of the Venture Entities or US EmployCos ownership, use or operation of their respective assets and businesses.
Section 8.1
(b)           Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be, shall give written notice to the applicable Venture Entity or US EmployCo within 30 days of becoming aware of any matters that may give rise to a Claim for indemnification from a Venture Entity or US EmployCo under this Agreement, and Cyclone and Storm shall cooperate with that Venture Entity or US EmployCo in any investigation by that Venture Entity or US EmployCo of such matters. Failure to so notify the Venture Entity or US EmployCo shall not relieve the Venture Entity or US EmployCo of any liability which the Venture Entity or US EmployCo might have to Cyclone Indemnified Persons or Storm Indemnified Persons, except to the extent that such failure materially prejudices the Venture Entitys or US EmployCos position. This indemnification is in addition to the other indemnifications provided for in this Agreement or the Charter Documents of the Venture Entities or US EmployCo.
8.2           .
Cyclone Indemnification
(a)           Cyclone shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold the Venture Entity Indemnified Persons, US EmployCo Indemnified Persons and Storm Indemnified Persons, as the case may be, harmless from and against, any Claim or Loss (other than any Claim or Loss relating to Taxes (other than Taxes that are Excluded Liabilities set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter), for which indemnification provisions are set forth in Section 8.4) arising out of:
Section 2.4
 
 
 
-78-
 
 
(i)           any inaccuracy in any of the representations or breach of any of the warranties made in this Agreement or any other Transaction Document by Cyclone or its Affiliates as of the date of this Agreement or as of the Closing Date (except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date, in which case only at and as of such specified date); that in determining the scope of Cyclones indemnification obligations under this Section 8.2(a)(i), any qualification as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect in the representations and warranties shall be disregarded (it being understood that such qualifications as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall apply only for the purposes of determining whether there has been a breach);
provided
(ii)           any breach or default in performance of any of the covenants or obligations that are to be performed by Cyclone or its Affiliates under this Agreement or any other Transaction Document;
(iii)           any Excluded Liability to the extent attributable or related to Cyclone or its Affiliates or the Cyclone Subsea Business or the Cyclone Transferred Assets; or
(iv)           any Claims (including governmental actions for fines and penalties and any warranty or other customer claims) arising prior to, on or after the Closing, directly attributable to products designed or sold by Cyclone or any of its Affiliates prior to the Closing Date and installed and operating prior to the Closing Date; , that Cyclone shall not be obligated to indemnify any Person under this clause (iv) with respect to any Claim attributable to a product as to which a Venture Entity has provided parts or services on or after the Closing Date; and , that the following limitations shall apply:
provided
provided further
(A)           Cyclone shall not be required to indemnify any Person, and shall not have any liability under this clause (iv), with respect to any warranty Claim unless (1) Losses attributable to such warranty Claim or series of related warranty Claims arising out of or attributable to the same underlying event or circumstances exceed $3,000,000 per event or series, and (2) the aggregate amount of all Losses (including, for purposes of this calculation, the $3,000,000 threshold referred to in subclause (1)) attributable or related to such warranty Claims exceeds the Applicable Deductible (taking into account all other Losses applied against such Applicable Deductible in accordance with this Agreement), and if such conditions are met Cyclones liability shall be limited only to the amount of such excess;
(B)           Cyclone shall not be required to indemnify any Person, and shall not have any liability under this clause (iv), with respect to any Claim (other than warranty Claims, which are covered in clause (A)) unless the aggregate amount of all Losses attributable or related to such Claims exceeds the Applicable Deductible (taking into account all other Losses applied against such Applicable Deductible in accordance with this Agreement), and if such condition is met Cyclones liability shall be limited only to the amount of such excess.
 
 
 
-79-
 
 
(b)           Storm, US EmployCo or the applicable Venture Entity, as the case may be, shall give written notice to Cyclone within 30 days of becoming aware of any matters that may give rise to a claim for indemnification from Cyclone under this Section 8.2, and Storm, US EmployCo and the applicable Venture Entity shall cooperate with Cyclone in any investigation by Cyclone of such matters. Failure to so notify Cyclone shall not relieve Cyclone of any liability which Cyclone might have to the Storm Indemnified Persons, the US EmployCo Indemnified Persons or the Venture Entity Indemnified Persons, except to the extent that such failure materially prejudices Cyclones position. With respect to any matter for which Cyclone is required to indemnify and defend the Storm Indemnified Persons, the US EmployCo Indemnified Persons or the Venture Entity Indemnified Persons pursuant to the terms of this Agreement relating to any Environmental Liability, including any requirement to conduct or fund any investigation, abatement, monitoring, removal, remediation, response, cleanup or corrective action () under any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirement, (i) Cyclone shall have the right to control the scope, design and other decisions relating to, and may elect to conduct, any such Remedial Action; that such Remedial Action shall be conducted in a reasonably expeditious manner and in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with the operations of the Venture Entity at the relevant property; (ii) in no case shall Cyclone be required to indemnify any Storm Indemnified Persons or Venture Entity Indemnified Persons for any Environmental Liability or conduct or fund any Remedial Action (A) except to the extent any Losses associated with any such Environmental Liability are necessary to comply with applicable Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements and, in the case of a Remedial Action, except to the extent any such Remedial Action is necessary to comply with minimum applicable cleanup standards (including risk assessment or risk reduction principles or programs or institutional controls, provided such principles, programs, or controls are authorized by applicable Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements and are acceptable to the applicable Governmental Authority) and (B) to the extent Losses associated with any such Environmental Liability or to the extent any Remedial Action arises from a change in use or cessation of operations at the relevant property after the Closing Date or arises from any investigation or sampling conducted after the Closing Date that was not required by applicable Environmental Health and Safety Requirements; and (iii) the party that conducts any such Remedial Action shall provide the other parties with (A) a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on any draft reports or plans prior to the submission of such documents to any Governmental Authority and (B) copies of all reports and plans submitted to any Governmental Authority and with any other information reasonably requested by such other parties with respect to such Remedial Actions; that, Cyclone shall control all final decisions with respect to such reports or plans. Storm and the Venture Entities shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with Cyclone in addressing any Environmental Liability, including with respect to the implementation and performance of any Remedial Action undertaken by Cyclone pursuant to this provision, and shall take commercially reasonable efforts to avoid or mitigate any Losses or potential Losses of Storm and the Venture Entities that could result from such Environmental Liability or Remedial Action.
Remedial Action
provided
provided
 
 
 
-80-
 
 
(c)           This indemnification is in addition to the other indemnifications provided for in this Agreement or the Charter Documents of the Venture Entities or US EmployCo.
8.3           .
Storm Indemnification
(a)           Storm shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold the Venture Entity Indemnified Persons, the US EmployCo Indemnified Persons and the Cyclone Indemnified Persons, as the case may be, harmless from and against, any Claim or Loss (other than any Claim or Loss relating to Taxes (other than Taxes that are Excluded Liabilities set forth in of the Storm Disclosure Letter), for which indemnification provisions are set forth in Section 8.4) arising out of:
Section 2.4
(i)           any inaccuracy in any of the representations or breach of any of the warranties made in this Agreement or any other Transaction Document by Storm or its Affiliates as of the date of this Agreement or as of the Closing Date (except to the extent such representations and warranties expressly relate to a specified date, in which case only at and as of such specified date); that in determining the scope of Storms indemnification obligations under this Section 8.3(a)(i), any qualification as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect in the representations and warranties shall be disregarded (it being understood that such qualifications as to materiality or Material Adverse Effect shall apply only for the purposes of determining whether there has been a breach);
provided
(ii)           any breach or default in performance of any of the covenants or obligations that are to be performed by Storm or its Affiliates under this Agreement or any other Transaction Document;
(iii)           any Excluded Liability to the extent attributable or related to Storm or its Affiliates or the Storm Subsea Business or the Storm Transferred Assets; or
(iv)           any Claims (including governmental actions for fines and penalties and any warranty or other customer claims) arising prior to, on or after the Closing, directly attributable to products designed or sold by Storm or any of its Affiliates prior to the Closing Date and installed and operating prior to the Closing Date; , that Storm shall not be obligated to indemnify any Person under this clause (iv) with respect to any Claim attributable to a product as to which a Venture Entity has provided parts or services on or after the Closing Date; and , that the following limitations shall apply:
provided
provided further
(A)           Storm shall not be required to indemnify any Person, and shall not have any liability under this clause (iv), with respect to any warranty Claim unless (1) Losses attributable to such warranty Claim or series of related warranty Claims arising out of or attributable to the same underlying event or circumstances exceed $3,000,000 per event or series, and (2) the aggregate amount of all Losses (including, for purposes of this calculation, the $3,000,000 threshold referred to in subclause (1)) attributable or related to such warranty Claims exceeds the Applicable Deductible (taking into account all other Losses applied against such Applicable Deductible in accordance with this Agreement), and if such conditions are met Storms liability shall be limited only to the amount of such excess;
 
 
 
-81-
 
 
(B)           Storm shall not be required to indemnify any Person, and shall not have any liability under this clause (iv), with respect to any Claim (other than warranty Claims, which are covered in clause (A)) unless the aggregate amount of all Losses attributable or related to such Claims exceeds the Applicable Deductible (taking into account all other Losses applied against such Applicable Deductible in accordance with this Agreement), and if such condition is met Storms liability shall be limited only to the amount of such excess.
(b)           Cyclone, US EmployCo or the applicable Venture Entity, as the case may be, shall give written notice to Storm within 30 days of becoming aware of any matters that may give rise to a claim for indemnification from Storm under this Section 8.3, and Cyclone, US EmployCo and the applicable Venture Entity shall cooperate with Storm in any investigation by Storm of such matters. Failure to so notify Storm shall not relieve Storm of any liability which Storm might have to the Cyclone Indemnified Persons, the US EmployCo Indemnified Persons or the Venture Entity Indemnified Persons, except to the extent that such failure materially prejudices Storms position. With respect to any matter for which Storm is required to indemnify and defend the Cyclone Indemnified Persons, the US EmployCo Indemnified Persons or the Venture Entity Indemnified Persons pursuant to the terms of this Agreement relating to any Remedial Action under any Environmental, Health and Safety Requirement, (i) Storm shall have the right to control the scope, design and other decisions relating to, and may elect to conduct, any such Remedial Action; that such Remedial Action shall be conducted in a reasonably expeditious manner and in a manner that does not unreasonably interfere with the operations of the Venture Entity at the relevant property; (ii) in no case shall Storm be required to indemnify any Cyclone Indemnified Persons or Venture Entity Indemnified Persons for any Environmental Liability  or conduct or fund any Remedial Action (A) except to the extent any Losses associated with any such Environmental Liability are necessary to comply with applicable Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements and, in the case of a Remedial Action, except to the extent any such Remedial Action is necessary to comply with minimum applicable cleanup standards (including risk assessment or risk reduction principles or programs or institutional controls, provided such principles, programs, or controls are authorized by applicable Environmental, Health and Safety Requirements and are acceptable to the applicable Governmental Authority) and (B) to the extent Losses associated with any such Environmental Liability or to the extent any Remedial Action arises from a change in use or cessation of operations at the relevant property after the Closing Date or arises from any investigation or sampling conducted after the Closing Date that was not required by applicable Environmental Health and Safety Requirements; and (iii) the party that conducts any such Remedial Action shall provide the other parties with (A) a reasonable opportunity to review and comment on any draft reports or plans prior to the submission of such documents to any Governmental Authority and (B) copies of all reports and plans submitted to any Governmental Authority and with any other information reasonably requested by such other parties with respect to such Remedial Actions; that, Storm shall control all final decisions with respect to such reports or plans. Cyclone and the Venture Entities shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with Storm in addressing any Environmental Liability, including with respect to the implementation and performance of any Remedial Action undertaken by Storm pursuant to this provision, and shall take commercially reasonable efforts to avoid or mitigate any Losses or potential Losses of Cyclone and the Venture Entities that could result from such Environmental Liability or Remedial Action.
provided
provided
 
 
 
-82-
 
 
(c)           This indemnification is in addition to the other indemnifications provided for in this Agreement or the Charter Documents of the Venture Entities or US EmployCo.
8.4           .
Tax
Indemnity
(a)           . Storm shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold the Venture Entity Indemnified Persons, the US EmployCo Indemnified Persons and the Cyclone Indemnified Persons, as the case may be, harmless from and against (without duplication)  (i) income Taxes arising from or relating to the Storm Subsea Business for any period or portion thereof ending on or before the Closing Date, (ii) Specified Tax Losses of the Storm Subsea Business for any period or portion thereof ending on or before the Closing Date that are actually assessed by a Governmental Authority, (iii) interest, penalties or other additions to Tax of any kind imposed with respect to Specified Tax Losses described in the previous clause, (iv) Taxes (other than Transfer Taxes or VAT for which indemnification is provided in Section 8.4(c)(ii)) arising from or relating to the transfer of the Storm Transferred Assets to the Venture Entities or US EmployCo, (v) Taxes arising from or relating to any internal reorganization steps reflected in Storms Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan, regardless of when such steps occur or when such Tax is imposed, (vi) Taxes arising from or relating to the failure by Storm or its Affiliates to perform or comply with any covenant in this Agreement relating to Taxes, (vii) Taxes arising out of any breach of the representations made in Section 4.20 and (viii) all liability for Taxes of Storm or any other entity that is or has been a member of an affiliated, unitary or combined group with any of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries; , that, except as provided in clause (v) above, Storm shall not be responsible for any Taxes of the Storm Transferred Subsidiaries for any taxable periods or portions thereof beginning after the Closing Date; and , that Storm shall not be responsible under this Section 8.4(a) for any Taxes (x) to the extent taken into account in calculating Storm Net Working Capital or (y) that are Excluded Liabilities set forth in of the Storm Disclosure Letter and for which indemnification is provided in Section 8.3.
Storm Tax Indemnity
provided, however
provided further
Section 2.4
(b)           . Cyclone shall be responsible for, and shall indemnify and hold the Venture Entity Indemnified Persons, US EmployCo Indemnified Persons and Storm Indemnified Persons, as the case may be, harmless from and against (without duplication) (i) income Taxes arising from or relating to the Cyclone Subsea Business for any period or portion thereof ending on or before the Closing Date, (ii) Specified Tax Losses of the Cyclone Subsea Business for any period or portion thereof ending on or before the Closing Date that are actually assessed by a Governmental Authority, (iii) interest, penalties or other additions to Tax of any kind imposed with respect to Specified Tax Losses described in the previous clause, (iv) Taxes (other than Transfer Taxes or VAT for which indemnification is provided in Section 8.4(c)(ii)) arising from or relating to the transfer of the Cyclone Transferred Assets to the Venture Entities or US EmployCo, (v) Taxes arising from or relating to any internal reorganization steps reflected in Cyclones Pre-Closing Reorganization Plan, regardless of when such steps occur or when such Tax is imposed, (vi) Taxes arising from or relating to the failure by the Cyclone or its Affiliates to perform or comply with any covenant in this Agreement relating to Taxes, (vii) Taxes arising out of any breach of the representations made in Section 5.20 and (viii) all liability for Taxes of Cyclone or any other entity that is or has been a member of an affiliated, unitary or combined group with any of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries; , that, except as provided in clause (v) above, Cyclone shall not be responsible for any Taxes of the Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries for any taxable periods or portions thereof beginning after the Closing Date; and , that Cyclone shall not be responsible under this Section 8.4(b) for any Taxes (x) to the extent taken into account in calculating Cyclone Net Working Capital or (y) that are Excluded Liabilities set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter and for which indemnification is provided in Section 8.2.
Cyclone Tax Indemnity
provided, however
provided further
Section 2.4
 
 
 
-83-
 
 
(c)           . Each Venture Entity and its subsidiaries and US EmployCo, jointly and severally, shall be responsible for and shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Cyclone Indemnified Persons and the Storm Indemnified Persons from and against and in respect of (i) all Taxes imposed on it, its subsidiaries and joint ventures, or attributable to the ownership, use or operation of its assets or the assets of its subsidiaries and joint ventures (other than Taxes that arise as a result of income allocated to a Cyclone Indemnified Person or a Storm Indemnified Person by a Venture Entity that is pass through for Tax purposes), and for which neither Storm nor Cyclone is liable under Section 8.4(a) and Section 8.4(b) and (ii) any Transfer Taxes or VAT for which the Venture Entities are liable under Section 7.3.
Venture Entity Tax Indemnity
(d)           . For purposes of this Section 8.4, any Taxes that are payable with respect to a tax period that includes (but does not end on) the Closing Date shall be allocated to either the pre-Closing or post-Closing portion of such period based on an interim closing of the books as of the end of the Closing Date, except for ad valorem, property or similar Taxes, which shall be allocated such that the amount of such Tax allocable to the period ending on the Closing Date shall be the total amount of such Taxes for the entire period multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the partial period through and including the Closing Date, and the denominator of which is the total number of days in such period.
Proration of Certain Taxes
(e)           . Unless Storm and Cyclone otherwise agree, Storm, Cyclone and their respective Affiliates shall cooperate as set forth below with respect to Tax matters for time periods ending on or before the Closing Date.
Tax Cooperation
(i)           . Storm, Cyclone, US EmployCo and the Venture Entities shall cooperate fully, as and to the extent reasonably requested by the other party, in connection with the filing of Tax returns and any audit, litigation or other proceeding with respect to Taxes. Such cooperation shall include the retention and (upon the other partys request) the provision of records and information which are reasonably relevant (in the sole opinion of the requesting party) to any such audit, litigation or other proceeding and making employees available on a mutually convenient basis to provide additional information and explanation of any material provided hereunder.
Tax Cooperation in General
 
 
 
-84-
 
 
(ii)           . Each party shall retain all books and records with respect to Tax matters pertinent to the other party until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (and, to the extent notified by the other party, any extensions thereof), shall give the other party reasonable written notice prior to transferring, destroying or discarding any such books and records and, at such time, if the other party so requests, shall allow the other party to take possession of such books and records.
Retention of Books and Records
(iii)           . Storm shall be entitled to all refunds of Taxes (whether received by payment, credit, offset or otherwise) for which Storm is liable under Section 8.4(a), and Cyclone shall be entitled to all refunds of Taxes (whether received by payment, credit, offset or otherwise) that are set forth in of the Cyclone Disclosure Letter or for which Cyclone is liable under Section 8.4(b). In the case of Taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority in Angola or Nigeria, Non-U.S. Venture Entity shall be entitled to use any refund of Taxes attributable to a taxable period or portion thereof that begins after the Closing Date before Non-U.S. Venture Entity is required to use any refund of Taxes attributable to a taxable period or portion thereof ending on or before the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that any refund of Taxes is with respect to a period ending on or before the Closing Date, but arises as a result of a carry-back of a tax credit, net operating loss, or other tax attribute arising in a taxable period or a portion thereof which begins after the Closing Date, any such refund of Taxes shall belong to the Venture Entities or US EmployCo. Each party shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any refund of Taxes to which any other party may be entitled pursuant to this Agreement and, upon receipt of any such refund, shall promptly transmit such amount to the party entitled thereto.
Refunds
Section 2.3
(iv)           . Each party shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to obtain, when requested by another party, any certificate or other document from any Governmental Authority.
Tax Certificates
(v)           . The parties agree that any expenses incurred by a party in connection with the cooperation described in this Section 8.4(e) shall be the responsibility of the party incurring the cost and no reimbursement shall be sought from the requesting party.
Cooperation Costs
 
(f)           . Each of the Venture Entities and US EmployCo shall prepare all Tax returns therefor. Each Venture Entity and US EmployCo shall provide to Storm and Cyclone or a designated Affiliate, in a timely manner, all such financial information as will enable Storm and Cyclone and their respective Affiliates (i) to make all calculations of Taxes or Tax credits that are incident to their ownership of the Venture Entities and US EmployCo and (ii) to comply with all applicable reporting requirements of any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over Storm and Cyclone or any of their respective Affiliates.
Tax Reporting
 
 
 
-85-
 
 
8.5           .
Partner Cross-Indemnities
(a)           In the event that the Venture Entities or US EmployCo are unable to fulfill their indemnity obligations under Section 8.1 with respect to a Loss of any of the Cyclone Indemnified Persons properly brought under Section 8.1, Storm shall and hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless such Cyclone Indemnified Person for 40% of the unsatisfied Loss.
(b)           In the event that the Venture Entities or US EmployCo are unable to fulfill their indemnity obligations under Section 8.1 with respect to a Loss of any of the Storm Indemnified Persons properly brought under Section 8.1, Cyclone shall and hereby agrees to indemnify and hold harmless such Storm Indemnified Person for 60% of the unsatisfied Loss.
8.6           .
Settlement of Indemnities
(a)           .  Losses under Section 8.2(a)(i) or 8.3(a)(i) or Specified Tax Losses under Sections 8.4(a)(ii) or 8.4(b)(ii) that do not exceed the Applicable Deductible (when considered together with all other Losses and Specified Tax Losses applied against the Applicable Deductible with respect to such party in accordance with this Agreement), whether incurred as a result of a single incident or a series of related incidents, shall not be subject to an indemnification obligation except to the extent provided in the immediately following sentence. If a Loss or series of related Losses under Section 8.2(a)(i) or 8.3(a)(i) or Specified Tax Losses under Sections 8.4(a)(ii) or 8.4(b)(ii) (when considered together with all other Losses and Specified Tax Losses applied against the Applicable Deductible with respect to such party in accordance with this Agreement) exceeds the Applicable Deductible, then only the amount of such Loss or Specified Tax Loss in excess of the Applicable Deductible shall be subject to indemnification obligations hereunder.  Except for breaches of the Fundamental Representations, Cyclones indemnification obligations under Section 8.2(a)(i) and Storms indemnification obligations under Section 8.3(a)(i) shall not, in either case, exceed $500 million in the aggregate; , that if a Loss is subject to indemnification under both (x) Section 8.2(a)(iii) or 8.3(b)(iii) and (y) Section 8.2(a)(i) or 8.2(b)(i), then the foregoing limitation shall not apply.  In addition, (1) no indemnification obligation shall exist under Section 8.2(a)(i) and Section 8.3(a)(i) for any Loss that is not asserted prior to the second anniversary of the Closing Date, (2) claims for indemnification under Section 8.2(a)(ii) and Section 8.3(a)(ii) may only be made for as long as the underlying covenant or obligation exists and for a period of three years thereafter, (3) the indemnification contained in Section 8.2(a)(iii) and Section 8.3(a)(iii) shall survive forever, (4) no indemnification obligation shall exist under Section 8.2(a)(iv) and Section 8.3(a)(iv) for any Loss that is not asserted prior to the third anniversary of the Closing Date and (5) the indemnification for Taxes contained in Section 8.4(a), Section 8.4(b) and Section 8.4(c) shall survive until the expiration of the applicable statutes of limitations (including all periods of extension and tolling) plus 90 days.
Limitations
provided
 
 
 
-86-
 
 
(b)           .  If any Claim or assertion of liability is made or asserted by a third party against the Indemnified Party in respect of which indemnification has been provided for hereunder, the Indemnified Party shall, with reasonable promptness, but not later than 30 days following such assertion, give to the Indemnifying Party written notice of such claim or assertion of liability and request the Indemnifying Party to defend same. Failure to so notify the Indemnifying Party shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of any liability which the Indemnifying Party might have to the Indemnified Party, except to the extent that such failure materially prejudices the Indemnifying Partys position. The Indemnifying Party shall have the right to defend against such liability or assertion, in which event, the Indemnifying Party shall give written notice to the Indemnified Party of acceptance of the defense of such Claim and the identity of counsel selected by the Indemnifying Party. Except as set forth below, such notice to the Indemnified Party shall give the Indemnifying Party full authority to defend, adjust, compromise or settle, without any cost or expense to the Indemnified Party, such action, suit, proceeding or demand of which such notice shall have been given in the name of the Indemnified Party or otherwise as the Indemnifying Party shall elect. The Indemnifying Party shall consult with the Indemnified Party prior to any such compromise or settlement, and the Indemnified Party shall have the right to refuse such compromise or settlement and, at its cost, to take over such defense if the proposed compromise or settlement would impose any obligation or burden on the Indemnified Party other than the payment of cash for which the Indemnifying Party agrees to be completely responsible; that in such event, the Indemnifying Party shall not be responsible for, nor shall it be obligated to indemnify the Indemnified Party against, any cost and liability in excess of such compromise or settlement. With respect to any defense accepted by the Indemnifying Party, the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to participate with the Indemnifying Party in such defense and also shall be entitled to employ separate counsel for such defense at its expense. In the event the Indemnifying Party does not accept the defense of any indemnified Claim as provided above, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ counsel for such defense at the expense of the Indemnifying Party, and to, in good faith with due regard to the interests of the Indemnifying Party, control all decisions regarding the handling of the defense without the consent of the Indemnifying Party, but shall not have the right to compromise or settle any such action or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to such action without the consent of the Indemnifying Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed, unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of the Indemnifying Party from all liability and obligations arising out of such action. Cyclone and Storm agree to cooperate with the other party, US EmployCo or a Venture Entity, as the case may be, in the defense of any actions brought by third parties, and the relevant records of each party shall be available to the other parties with respect to any such defense. None of Cyclone, Storm, US EmployCo or any Venture Entity will provide assistance to the party asserting the Claim unless such assistance is required by Applicable Law.
Third-Party Claims
provided, however,
(c)           Each of the parties, US EmployCo and each Venture Entity shall have a duty to take reasonable steps to mitigate its Losses to the fullest extent possible, including diligently pursuing any possible indemnification, counterclaim or other action against third parties under any Contract or other obligation relating to the cause or effect of the Loss; , that no Indemnified Party shall have any duty to make any claim under its own insurance coverage for an indemnification obligation of an Indemnifying Party. Furthermore, each Indemnifying Party shall waive any rights of subrogation that its insurance company may have to make any claims under any insurance coverage of an Indemnifying Party against an Indemnified Party to the extent of any indemnification obligations hereunder. If an Indemnifying Party makes a payment hereunder, that party shall be subrogated to the rights of the payee against any applicable third-party indemnitor or other third party (other than an insurance carrier) from which recovery of payment may be possible. Additionally, to the extent that an Indemnified Party collects some or all of a Loss from an insurance carrier, third-party indemnitor or any other third party instead of seeking indemnity from an Indemnifying Party hereunder, such insurance carrier, third-party indemnitor or other third party shall have no rights hereunder to seek reimbursement from the otherwise Indemnifying Party. To the extent the total Loss is reduced due to the receipt of an offsetting payment from a third party under an indemnification obligation, a counterclaim against that third party or otherwise, the parties shall share that payment pro rata based on their Percentage Interests. For example, if a Loss of $100,000 is incurred that would otherwise be the liability of Cyclone ($60,000) and Storm ($40,000) and Cyclone receives the entire $100,000 from a third party based on a previous indemnity, Cyclone would be obligated to apply $40,000 of that payment to Storms portion of the Loss.
provided, however
 
 
 
-87-
 
 
(d)           The parties agree that no payment of funds in settlement of any indemnification obligations provided for in this Agreement or any other Transaction Document shall affect the agreed-upon Percentage Interests.
8.7           .  
Waiver of Consequential Damages
Except as provided in Section 8.1,
Section 8.2(a)(iv) or Section 8.3(a)(iv), no party, US EmployCo or Venture Entity shall be required to indemnify or pay the amount of any Loss to any other party, US EmployCo or Venture Entity in connection with this Agreement arising from indirect, consequential, special, exemplary or punitive damages, except for indirect, consequential, special, exemplary or punitive damages actually paid to any third party by the Indemnified Party seeking indemnification hereunder.
8.8           .  
Exclusive Remedy; Negligence of Indemnified Parties
The indemnification obligations of the parties under this Article 8 shall be the exclusive remedy for any claim by any party against any other party based on the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and shall be effective regardless of by whom asserted, and regardless of whether any Claim or Loss results solely or in part from the active, passive or concurrent negligence (but not gross negligence) of any of the parties to be indemnified;
provided, however
, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Agreement, that this Section 8.8 shall not apply to liability for fraud or willful breach (it being understood that, for purposes of this Agreement,
willful breach
shall mean a material breach that is the consequence of an omission by, or act undertaken by or caused by, the breaching party with the knowledge that the omission or taking or causing of such act would cause a breach of this Agreement).
 
 
 
-88-
 
 
ARTICLE 9.
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
9.1           .
Cyclone Assignment
(a)           Subject to the specific mechanics described in the Pre-Closing Reorganization Plans adopted by each party in accordance with Section 6.9, Cyclone shall assign or cause to be assigned to US Venture Entity in accordance with Article 2 all right, title and interest in and to the Cyclone Transferred IP that is owned by Cyclone (other than Transferred IP owned by Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries).
(b)           Cyclone shall assign or cause to be assigned to Non-U.S. Venture Entity in accordance with Article 2 all right, title and interest in and to the Cyclone Transferred IP primarily related to the Cyclone Subsea Business outside the U.S. (other than Transferred IP that is (i) transferred to US Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(i) or (ii) owned by Cyclone Transferred Subsidiaries).
9.2           .
Storm/Storm US/Storm BV Assignment
(a)           Storm US shall assign or cause to be assigned to US Venture Entity in accordance with Article 2 all right, title and interest in and to the Storm Transferred IP in the U.S. (other than Transferred IP owned by Storm Transferred Subsidiaries).
(b)           Storm BV shall assign or cause to be assigned to Non-U.S. Venture Entity in accordance with Article 2 all right, title and interest in and to the Storm Transferred IP primarily related to the Storm Subsea Business outside the U.S. (other than Transferred IP that is (i) transferred to U.S. Venture Entity pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(i) or (ii) owned by Storm Transferred Subsidiaries).
9.3           .
Grant-Back License to Cyclone
(a)           US Venture Entity shall grant or cause to be granted to Cyclone and its Affiliates a perpetual, non-exclusive, irrevocable, transferable (without the right to sublicense), royalty-free license to the Cyclone Transferred IP contributed pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(i) above (including the right to create copyright derivative works).
(b)           Non-U.S. Venture Entity shall grant or cause to be granted to Cyclone and its Affiliates a perpetual, non-exclusive, irrevocable, transferable (without the right to sublicense), royalty-free license to the Cyclone Transferred IP contributed pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(i) above (including the right to create copyright derivative works).
9.4           .
Grant-Back License to Storm
(a)           US Venture Entity shall grant or cause to be granted to Storm US and its Affiliates a perpetual, non-exclusive, irrevocable, transferable (without the right to sublicense), royalty-free license to the Storm Transferred IP contributed pursuant to Section 2.1(b)(iii) above (including the right to create copyright derivative works.
 
 
 
-89-
 
 
(b)           Non-U.S. Venture Entity shall grant or cause to be granted to Storm BV and its Affiliates a perpetual, non-exclusive, irrevocable, transferable (without the right to sublicense) royalty-free license to the Storm Transferred IP contributed pursuant to Section 2.1(c)(ii) above (including the right to create copyright derivative works).
9.5           .
License of Future Developments
(a)           US Venture Entity shall grant to each of Cyclone and Storm US, and their designated Affiliates, a perpetual, irrevocable, non-transferable and non-sublicensable to third-parties (except as provided in Section 9.8 and Section 9.9), royalty-free, non-exclusive license to any Future Development while Cyclone or Storm US or their respective Affiliates, as appropriate, has an ownership interest, whether direct or indirect, in the US Venture Entity. Any license granted pursuant to this Section 9.5(a) to a contributing party shall not include any license, express or otherwise, to the Retained IP or the Transferred IP transferred by the other party. Accordingly, Cyclone and Storm US recognize that if they need the Retained IP of the other party or the Transferred IP contributed by the other party in order to utilize the Future Development, they would have to obtain a license to that Retained or Transferred IP.
(b)           Non-U.S. Venture Entity shall grant to each of Cyclone and Storm BV, and their designated Affiliates, a perpetual, irrevocable, non-transferable and non-sublicensable to third-parties (except as provided in Section 9.8 and Section 9.9), royalty-free, non-exclusive license to any Future Development while Cyclone or Storm BV or their respective Affiliates, as appropriate, has an ownership interest, whether direct or indirect, in Non-U.S. Venture Entity. Any license granted pursuant to this Section 9.5(b) to a contributing party shall not include any license, express or otherwise, to the Retained IP or Transferred IP transferred by the other party. Accordingly, Cyclone and Storm BV recognize that if they need the Retained IP of the other party or the Transferred IP contributed by the other party in order to utilize the Future Development, they would have to obtain a license to that Retained or Transferred IP.
9.6           .
License of Cyclone Retained IP
(a)           Cyclone shall grant or cause to be granted to Non-U.S. Venture Entity, a non-exclusive, irrevocable, non-transferable (with the right to sublicense to non-U.S. Affiliates), royalty-free license to make, have made, sell, offer for sale, and use (including the right to create copyright derivative works), within the Subsea Business outside the U.S., the Cyclone Retained IP.
(b)           Cyclone shall grant or cause to be granted to US Venture Entity a non-exclusive, irrevocable, non-transferable (with the right to sublicense to U.S. Affiliates), royalty-free license to make, have made, sell, offer for sale, and use (including the right to create copyright derivative works), within the Subsea Business in the U.S., the Cyclone Retained IP.
9.7           .
License of Storm Retained IP
(a)           Storm BV shall grant or cause to be granted to Non-U.S. Venture Entity a non-exclusive, irrevocable, non-transferable (with the right to sublicense to non-U.S. Affiliates), royalty-free license to make, have made, sell, offer for sale, and use (including the right to create copyright derivative works), within the Subsea Business outside the U.S., the Storm Retained IP.
 
 
 
-90-
 
 
(b)           Storm US shall grant or cause to be granted to US Venture Entity a non-exclusive, irrevocable, non-transferable (with the right to sublicense to U.S. Affiliates), royalty-free license to make, have made, sell, offer for sale, and use (including the right to create copyright derivative works), within the Subsea Business in the U.S., the Storm Retained IP.
9.8           .  Rights to Future Developments licensed to Cyclone or Storm or its respective Affiliates under Section 9.5 above may be sublicensed to an unaffiliated third party by the licensee if that Future Development is used outside the scope of the Subsea Business in good faith as part of an ongoing business that the licensee otherwise is selling to such third party.
Transferability of Future Developments (Sale of Business)
9.9           . Rights to Future Developments licensed to Cyclone or Storm or its respective Affiliates under Section 9.5 above may be sublicensed by the licensee to a business entity developing or using the technology in a commercial business outside the scope of the Subsea Business and in which the licensee/sublicensor has a controlling interest or greater than 40% economic interest.
Transferability of Future Developments (Joint Ventures)
9.10         . All Intellectual Property of each party that is not expressly assigned or licensed in this Agreement is reserved and retained by such party. Except as expressly provided in this Agreement, as of the Closing Date, no other assignments or licenses of Intellectual Property are granted whatsoever, whether expressly or by implication or by estoppel, by any party.  All Intellectual Property in any development, improvement or findings made after the Closing Date to the Transferred IP, the Retained IP, or the Future Developments (collectively the ) by Cyclone, Storm or their Affiliates while pursuing activities outside of the Subsea Business shall be owned by Cyclone, Storm or their Affiliates as appropriate. Unless expressly stated in duly executed writings, no assignment or licenses on this Independent IP shall be granted to the Venture Entities.
Reservation of Intellectual Property
Independent IP
9.11         .  Before a Venture Entity abandons Transferred IP assigned to it pursuant to Sections 9.1 or 9.2, that Venture Entity shall offer to assign, transfer and convey the abandoned Transferred IP to the originally assigning party, Cyclone or Storm, at the originally assigning partys cost. The Venture Entity and the originally assigning party will negotiate in good faith to determine the resources necessary to effectuate the transfer. Any abandoned Transferred IP that is assumed under this Section 9.11 may not be used by the assuming party within the scope, or sold or licensed to a third party that does business within the scope, of the Subsea Business while said assuming party remains bound by the terms of Section 12.6.
Abandonment of Transferred IP
i.e.,
9.12         . For purposes of Sections 9.11 through 9.15, abandonment shall include any of the following acts:
Meaning of Abandonment
(a)           For that Intellectual Property covered by a patent or patent application, a determination by the Venture Entities not to continue the prosecution of an entire Patent Family or, if they exist, of the US, UK or EP Patent Family members or not to pay any annuity or maintenance fee on an entire Patent Family or, if they exist, of the US, UK or EP Patent Family members. A  shall mean a particular patent and its foreign counterparts that include substantially the same claims.
Patent Family
 
 
 
-91-
 
 
(b)           For that Intellectual Property not covered by a patent or patent application, a determination by the Committee that the Venture Entities will not further develop and/or exploit the Intellectual Property.
(c)           The mutual agreement between the Venture Entities and the originally assigning party that the Venture Entities do not intend to pursue the Intellectual Property.
 
9.13         .  Each Venture Entity will use reasonable efforts to advise the originally assigning party of any decision by that Venture Entity to abandon or otherwise to not pursue Transferred IP so as to allow the originally assigning party to maintain the integrity of the subject Transferred IP. These efforts will include (1) extending to the TSC Members (as defined in the Shareholders Agreement) or a TSC Members designated alternate an invitation to attend meetings of Technical Committee (as defined in the Shareholders Agreement), (2) advising the originally assigning party reasonably in advance of any deadlines to maintain any patent or other rights so that the originally assigning party can act to continue any such protection, and (3) if necessary, to pay any such fees (such payments to be reimbursed by the originally assigning party) to continue any such Transferred IP until the originally assigning party resumes maintenance of the Transferred IP but no longer than one (1) year after the Venture Entity has advised the originally assigning party. Furthermore, the Venture Entity or Venture Entities, as necessary, will cooperate with the originally assigning party to complete and record any assignments or other conveyance documents necessary to reflect conveyance to the originally assigning party.
Good Faith Efforts to Maintain Transferred IP
9.14         .  In the event that a Venture Entity decides that it will abandon Intellectual Property owned by it and comprising a Future Development, it will offer to Cyclone and Storm the right to continue protection of same in the following manner. In the event that the Future Development is determined by the Committee to be based upon certain originally assigned Transferred IP, then the Venture Entity will offer the originally assigning party of the Transferred IP the option of assuming such protection. If such party elects not to assume protection of the Future Development, then the Venture Entity shall offer same to the other party (either Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be.) The assuming party, if one exists, will own the Future Development and the license of the same to the declining party pursuant to Section 9.5 will terminate. In the event that the Future Development cannot be associated with any Transferred IP, then the Venture Entity will advise both Cyclone and Storm of the Venture Entitys decision and offer both the opportunity to assume such protection. In the event that the opportunity to assume such protection is extended to both Cyclone and Storm, and either, but not both, Cyclone or Storm declines to continue protection of the Future Development, the accepting party shall have the exclusive rights to the Future Development and the license of same to the declining party pursuant to Section 9.5 will terminate. In the event that both Cyclone and Storm desire to continue protection of the Future Development, they will co-own such Future Development and share the costs associated with its protection. Any abandoned Future Development that is assumed under this Section 9.14 may not be used by the assuming party within the scope or sold or licensed to a third party that does business within the scope of the Subsea Business while said assuming party remains bound by the terms of Section 12.6.
Abandonment of Intellectual Property that Includes Future Developments
 
 
 
-92-
 
 
9.15         .
Enforcement of Intellectual Property
(a)           Unless stated otherwise in this Section 9.15, the Venture Entity owner of Transferred IP, Future Developments or both has the sole right, at said Venture Entitys costs, to bring and control any action against any third party for infringement or misappropriation of Intellectual Property in such Transferred IP and Future Developments, and to collect for its benefit any and all monetary, equitable and other relief available.
(b)           In the event any such infringement or misappropriation primarily (1) involves Transferred IP, (2) is outside the Subsea Business and (3) the originally assigning party wishes to bring suit, but the Venture Entity owner of the Transferred IP does not, the Venture Entity will transfer promptly to that originally assigning Party all rights in its possession necessary to bring suit and to collect any and all monetary, equitable and other relief available for the benefit of that originally assigning Party only. In addition, the Venture Entity will cooperate with Storm or Cyclone, as reasonably necessary, including joining any such action at Storms or Cyclones expense if any such cooperation is made at Storms or Cyclones request.
(c)           In the event any such infringement or misappropriation primarily (1) involves a Future Development and (2) is outside the Subsea Business, Cyclone and Storm will consult to determine how to proceed, and the Venture Entity owner of the Future Development will cooperate with Cyclone and Storm, as reasonably necessary, including joining any such action at Storms or Cyclones expense if any such cooperation is made at Storms or Cyclones request.
(d)           In the event that any such enforcement action shall involve Transferred IP and infringement or misappropriation outside the Subsea Business, any settlement of such action will be with the agreement of the originally assigning party.
9.16        .  In the event of any transfer of Cyclones or Storms ownership interest in any Venture Entity to a third-party under the terms of Section 11.2, the following shall apply:  The Venture Entities will retain all assignments and licenses of Intellectual Property transferred and granted to them by the Disposing Party or its Affiliates prior to the consummation of the Disposition.  The licenses granted to the Disposing Party and its Affiliates by the Venture Entities to the Transferred IP of the Disposing Party and to Future Developments shall automatically be limited in scope to non-Subsea applications for use in the business of the Disposing Party as it exists on the date of consummation of the Disposition. The assignments and licenses of Intellectual Property contemplated by this Article 9 shall take place on the Closing Date and shall be effected pursuant to documentation that is reasonably acceptable to Cyclone and Storm.
Intellectual Property Rights In the Event of Transfer
 
 
-93-
 
 
ARTICLE 10.
TERMINATION, AMENDMENT, WAIVER AND MODIFICATION
10.1         .  This Agreement may be terminated prior to the Closing Date:
Termination
(a)           by mutual written agreement of Cyclone and Storm;
(b)           by either Cyclone or Storm if the Closing shall not have occurred on or before August 14, 2013 (subject to Section 7.19) (the ), unless the absence of such occurrence shall be due to the failure of the party seeking to terminate this Agreement to perform each of its obligations under this Agreement required to be performed by it at or prior to the Closing Date;
Outside Date
(c)           by either Cyclone or Storm if there has been a breach by the other party of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement of such other party set forth in this Agreement or if any representation or warranty of such other party shall have become untrue, in either case such that the conditions set forth in Section 3.11 or Section 3.12 would not be satisfied and such breach or failure to be true and correct is not curable by the Outside Date; , that such right to terminate this Agreement shall not be available to a party if it, at such time, is in breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement set forth in this Agreement such that any of the conditions set forth in Section 3.11 or 3.12 shall not be satisfied;
provided, however
(d)           by either Cyclone or Storm if a court of competent jurisdiction in the U.S., the European Union or Norway shall have issued an order, decree or ruling or taken any other action permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and such order, decree, ruling or other action shall have become final and nonappealable, , that the party seeking to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10.1(d) shall have complied with Section 6.2 and 6.3 and, with respect to other matters not covered by Section 6.2 or 6.3, shall have used its commercially reasonable efforts to remove such injunction, order or decree;
provided, however
(e)           by Cyclone if a Change of Control Event with respect to Storm shall have occurred, or Storm or its Affiliates shall have entered into a definitive agreement contemplating a transaction which, if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control Event with respect to Storm, in each case, by notifying Storm of such termination within 20 days of the event triggering the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10.1(e), after which such termination right may no longer be exercised; or
(f)           by Storm if a Change of Control Event with respect to Cyclone shall have occurred, or Cyclone or its Affiliates shall have entered into a definitive agreement contemplating a transaction which, if consummated, would constitute a Change of Control Event with respect to Cyclone, in each case, by notifying Cyclone of such termination within 20 days of the event triggering the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 10.1(f), after which such termination right may no longer be exercised.
 
 
 
-94-
 
 
10.2         .
Effect of Termination
(a)           In the event of a termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 10.1(e), Storm shall promptly (but in no event later than three business days after the date of such termination) pay or cause to be paid to Cyclone or its designees a cash amount equal to $75,000,000 (the ) by wire transfer of same day funds.
Termination Fee
(b)           In the event of a termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 10.1(f), Cyclone shall promptly (but in no event later than three business days after the date of such termination) pay or cause to be paid to Storm or its designees a cash amount equal to the Termination Fee by wire transfer of same day funds.
(c)           In the event of the termination of this Agreement as provided above, there shall be no further liability or obligation on the part of any of the parties except as set forth in Sections 7.3, 10.2(a) and 10.2(b) and and except for any willful breach by a party and that, as soon as practicable following termination, the parties shall mutually agree on and release a joint public announcement of the termination.
Exhibit 12.6
10.3         .  This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed by or on behalf of Cyclone and Storm.
Amendment
10.4         .  At any time, a party solely with respect to itself, may: (a) with respect to obligations owed to it or the performance of other acts for its benefit, extend the time for the performance of such obligations or such other acts to be performed hereunder by another party; (b) waive any inaccuracies in the representations and warranties of another party contained herein or in any document delivered pursuant hereto; and (c) waive compliance with any of the conditions to the obligations of a party contained herein. Any agreement on the part of a party to any such extension or waiver shall be valid only if set forth in an instrument in writing signed on behalf of such party. No such waiver shall be operative as a waiver of any other or subsequent requirement of this Agreement.
Extension/Waiver
ARTICLE 11.
TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS
 
Each of Cyclone and Storm agrees that it will not, and will cause each Venture Owner not to, directly or indirectly, sell, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of all or any part of its ownership interest in any Venture Entity, except in accordance with this Article 11.
 
 
 
-95-
 
 
 
11.1         .
Ch
ange of Control
Events
(a)           If at any time Cyclone or Storm, as appropriate (the ), or any of their respective subsidiaries that own, directly or indirectly through one or more subsidiaries of that subsidiary, an interest in a Venture Entity (the ), (a) receives a bona fide proposal from a third party (the ) regarding a transaction that, if consummated, would constitute or lead to a Change of Control Event with respect to the Notifying Party and (b) the Notifying Party determines to enter into negotiations with the Change of Control Third Party, then within three business days of such determination the Notifying Party shall give written notice thereof (the ) to the other party (the ), identifying the Change of Control Third Party. Prior to the expiration of the Election Period with respect to such Change of Control Notice, the Other Party shall have the right, at its sole discretion, by giving written notice thereof (a ) to the Notifying Party, effective upon the consummation of the Change of Control Event described in such Change of Control Notice, to irrevocably elect to: (i) maintain its interest in the Venture Entities; or (ii) dissolve the Venture as provided in Section 11.1(b). A failure by the Other Party to deliver a Response Notice prior to the expiration of such Election Period shall be deemed to be a Response Notice electing to maintain its interest in the Venture Entities. For purposes hereof,  shall mean, with respect to any Change of Control Notice, a period of 20 calendar days following the receipt thereof by the Other Party; , that the Election Period may be extended with the express written consent of the Notifying Party after consideration in good faith of any request for extension thereof by the Other Party (taking into account all facts and circumstances, including the anticipated date of execution of definitive agreements with respect to the Change of Control Event) to facilitate negotiations with the Change of Control Third Party. In addition, the Notifying Party shall (i) provide a Change of Control Notice to the Other Party (A) within three business days of its determination to resume negotiations with any Change of Control Third Party identified in a previously delivered Change of Control Notice if the Notifying Party has subsequently informed the Other Party that negotiations with such Change of Control Third Party had lapsed and (B) within three business days of its determination to enter into negotiations with a Change of Control Third Party other than the Change of Control Third Party identified in a previously delivered Change of Control Notice and (ii) update the Other Party on a reasonable basis with respect to material developments in the status of any negotiations for which a Change of Control Notice has been provided.
Notifying Party
Affiliated Owners
Change of Control Third Party
Change of Control Notice
Other Party
Response Notice
Election Period
provided, however
(b)           If the Other Party elects to dissolve the Venture pursuant to Section 11.1(a), the following shall occur upon the consummation of the Change of Control Event set forth in the Change of Control Notice:
(i)           the Venture Entities shall transfer or cause to be transferred to Cyclone and/or its Affiliates all of the Cyclone Transferred Assets, including the Cyclone Transferred IP;
(ii)           the Venture Entities shall transfer or cause to be transferred to Storm and/or its Affiliates all of the Storm Transferred Assets, including the Storm Transferred IP;
(iii)           Cyclone shall assume or cause its Affiliates to assume all of the Cyclone Transferred Liabilities;
(iv)           Storm shall assume or cause its Affiliates to assume all of the Storm Transferred Liabilities;
 
 
 
-96-
 
 
(v)           assets (including for purposes of this Section 11.1(b)(v), new businesses) created by the Venture Entities after the Closing Date that are not part of the Cyclone Transferred Assets nor Storm Transferred Assets () and liabilities incurred by the Venture Entities after the Closing Date that are neither Cyclone Transferred Liabilities nor Storm Transferred Liabilities () shall be distributed as follows:
Jointly Created Assets
Jointly Created Liabilities
(A)           the Venture Entities shall transfer or cause to be transferred to Cyclone and/or its Affiliates all Jointly Created Assets that relate more closely to the Cyclone Transferred Assets than the Storm Transferred Assets;
(B)           the Venture Entities shall transfer or cause to be transferred to Storm and/or its Affiliates all Jointly Created Assets that relate more closely to the Storm Transferred Assets than the Cyclone Transferred Assets;
(C)           Cyclone shall assume or cause its Affiliates to assume all Jointly Created Liabilities that relate more closely to the Cyclone Transferred Assets and the assets to be transferred pursuant to clause (A) above, on the one hand, than the Storm Transferred Assets and the assets to be transferred pursuant to clause (B) above, on the other;
(D)           Storm shall assume or cause its Affiliates to assume all Jointly Created Liabilities that relate more closely to the Storm Transferred Assets and the assets to be transferred pursuant to clause (B) above, on the one hand, than the Cyclone Transferred Assets and the assets to be transferred pursuant to clause (A) above, on the other;
(E)           each Venture Owner Parent shall make a payment to the other Venture Owner Parent to true up the net value of each Jointly Created Asset and Jointly Created Liability transferred to, or assumed by, it or its Affiliates according to the parties respective Percentage Interests  the following hypothetical example is for illustrative purposes:  if a Jointly Created Asset relates more to the Cyclone Transferred Assets than the Storm Transferred Assets, and it has a value of $100,000, then it will be distributed to Cyclone and Cyclone will make a $40,000 payment to Storm in accordance with Storms Percentage Interest of 40%;
(F)           if, after negotiating in good faith for 60 days, the parties cannot agree on the party to which a Jointly Created Asset or a Jointly Created Liability shall be distributed or assumed pursuant to clauses (A) - (D) above, then the parties shall submit all such matters to a mutually agreed arbitrator who shall determine such matter in accordance with the principles set forth in such clauses (the arbitration shall be baseball arbitration, with both parties submitting a proposed resolution of the matters in dispute and the arbitrator selecting the proposal of one of the parties);
(G)           if, after negotiating in good faith for 60 days, the parties cannot agree on the value of a Jointly Created Asset or Jointly Created Liability, then the parties shall submit all such matters to a mutually agreed arbitrator (or if there is an arbitration under clause (F) above, to that arbitrator) who shall assign a value equal to either the value submitted by Cyclone or the value submitted by Storm (i.e., baseball arbitration).  All arbitration under this Section 11.1(b)(v) shall be in accordance with the ICC rules and shall take place in London.
 
 
 
-97-
 
 
(vi)           Intellectual Property of the Venture Entities shall be distributed as follows:
(A)           any licenses of the Retained IP under Sections 9.6 and 9.7 shall terminate;
(B)           all rights to Transferred IP assigned to the Venture Entities under Sections 9.1 and 9.2 shall be assigned back to the originally assigning party, with a non-exclusive, royalty free license, limited in scope to Subsea applications, to the other party such that each party has reasonable access to the IP necessary to operate the businesses of the Venture Entities to be distributed to that party;
(C)           the Committee shall determine with respect to each Future Development which party such Future Development shall be assigned to, based upon which partys originally assigned Retained IP or Transferred IP such Future Development is more closely related to  all Future Developments will be assigned to one of the parties based on the Committees determinations, with a non-exclusive, royalty free license, limited in scope to Subsea Business applications, to the other party such that each party has reasonable access to the Intellectual Property necessary to operate the businesses of the Venture Entities to be distributed to that party; and
(D)           any Supporting IP shall be assigned to the party that contributed such Supporting IP or, if licensed, the license of the Supporting IP shall terminate.
(c)           Cyclone and Storm agree not to, and agree to cause their respective Affiliates not to, provide any funds to any Person for the purpose of acquiring shares of Cyclone or Storm, respectively, with the intention of triggering a Change of Control Event of the type described in clause (a)(ii) of the definition thereof.
11.2         .
Right of First Refusal
(a)           .  If, at any time after the Closing Date, Cyclone or Storm desires to transfer (a ) all of its ownership interests in the Venture to a third party entirely for cash and has received a bona fide written offer to that effect with reasonable evidence of sufficient funding, then Cyclone or Storm, as appropriate (the ), shall promptly give notice thereof (the ) to the other party (the ). The Disposition Notice shall set forth all relevant information with respect to the proposed Disposition, including the name and address of the prospective acquirer, the purchase price, the manner in which the purchaser shall fund the purchase and any other terms and conditions of the proposed Disposition. The Recipient Party shall have the preferential right to acquire such ownership interest for the same purchase price, and on the same terms and conditions, as set forth in the Disposition Notice, except as provided otherwise in this Section 11.2. The Recipient Party shall have 30 days following its receipt of the Disposition Notice in which to notify the Disposing Party whether it elects to exercise its preferential right. A notice in which the Recipient Party exercises such right is referred to herein as an 
Procedure
Disposition
Disposing Party
Disposition Notice
Recipient Party
Exercise Notice
.
 
 
 
-98-
 
 
(b)           .  If the preferential right is exercised in accordance with Section 11.2(a), the closing of such purchase shall occur at an agreed-upon location on the first business day that is 30 days after the expiration of the preferential right period (or, if later, the 10th business day after the receipt of all applicable regulatory and governmental approvals to the purchase), unless the Disposing Party and the Recipient Party agree upon a different place or date. At that closing, (i) the Disposing Party shall execute and deliver to the Recipient Party (x) an assignment of the ownership interest described in the Disposition Notice, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Recipient Party, containing a general warranty of title as to such ownership interest (including that such ownership interest is free and clear of any Liens), (y) in the case of a Disposition of voting securities, the stock certificates representing such voting securities with stock powers attached and endorsed in blank, and (z) any other instruments reasonably requested by the Recipient Party to give effect to the purchase; and (ii) the Recipient Party shall deliver to the Disposing Party the purchase price specified in the Disposition Notice in immediately available funds.
Closing
(c)           .  If the Recipient Party does not deliver an Exercise Notice during the applicable period specified in Section 11.2(a), it shall be deemed to have waived its right of first refusal, and the Disposing Party shall have the right to dispose of its ownership interest in the Venture to the proposed purchaser strictly in accordance with the terms of the Disposition Notice for a period of 45 days after the expiration of the preferential right period (or, if later, the 10th business day after the receipt of all applicable regulatory and governmental approvals to the purchase). If, however, the Disposing Party fails so to dispose of the ownership interest within such 10-day period (or, if later, the 10th business day after the receipt of all applicable regulatory and governmental approvals to the purchase), the proposed Disposition shall again become subject to the preferential right set forth in this Section 11.2. Notwithstanding any waiver or deemed waiver of the Recipient Partys right of first refusal, in connection with any Disposition the Disposing Party shall enter into such supporting agreements between the Disposing Party and the Venture as are necessary in order for the Venture to operate in a manner consistent with its operations prior to the closing of the Disposition for a period of, at the election of the Venture, up to two years thereafter.
Waiver of Right of First Refusal
11.3         .  Except as set forth in Section 11.4, the parties agree not to make or attempt to make (a) any partial Disposition of their respective ownership interests in the Venture to a third party or (b) any Disposition in which any portion of the purchase price is to be paid in a form other than cash. Any proposed transfer of a partys ownership interests in the Venture must be for its entire interest in the Venture and must be entirely for cash.
No Partial Disposition
s
; No Dispositions for Non-Cash Consideration
 
 
 
-99-
 
 
11.4         .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article 11, the Cyclone or Storm subsidiaries that directly own the Venture Entities may, at any time, transfer all, or any portion of, their respective ownership interests in a Venture Entity to a subsidiary which, directly or indirectly, is wholly owned (other than directors qualifying shares or local ownership requirements, in each case, of no more than 5% of the total voting or equity interests) by Cyclone or Storm, as applicable; , that no transfer of an ownership interest in US Venture Entity to a wholly owned Affiliate of a Venture Owner shall be permitted without the consent of the other Venture Owner of US Venture Entity if such transfer would trigger the partnership termination provisions of Section 708(b) of the Code. In addition, it is agreed that the provisions of this Section 11.4 shall in no way hinder the transfers contemplated by Section 2.1.
Transfers to Wholly Owned Subsidiaries
provided, however
ARTICLE 12.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
12.1         .
[Reserved]
12.2         .  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas applicable to Contracts made and to be performed therein, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law thereof.
Governing Law
12.3         .  This Agreement and all of the provisions hereof shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and it is not intended to confer upon any other Person any rights or remedies hereunder, except that each of the Venture Entities shall be considered to be a third-party beneficiary of the provisions of this Agreement. Subject to the provisions of Article 11, neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder may be assigned by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other parties, except that Cyclone, Storm, Storm US or Storm BV may at any time assign any or all of its rights or obligations hereunder to one of its wholly owned subsidiaries (but no such assignment shall relieve Cyclone, Storm, Storm US or Storm BV, as the case may be, of any of its obligations under this Agreement).
Parties in Interest; Assignment
12.4         .  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument. This Agreement and any Transaction Document, and any amendments hereto or thereto, to the extent signed and delivered by means of facsimile or email, shall be treated in all respects as an original contract and shall be considered to have the same binding legal effects as if it were the original signed version thereof delivered in person.
Counterparts; Delivery by Electronic Transmission
12.5         .  All notices, requests, demands and other communications made in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given on the date delivered, if delivered personally, by reputable overnight delivery service that requires a signature on delivery or sent by email or facsimile machine with confirmation of receipt to the Persons identified below, or three days after mailing in the U.S. Mail if mailed by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:
Notices
 
 
 
-100-
 
 
(a)           if to Cyclone:
Cameron International Corporation
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas 77027
Facsimile: (713) 513-3421
Email:  william.lemmer@c-a-m.com
Attn.:  General Counsel
 
with a copy to:
 
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
Worldwide Plaza
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, NY  10019
Facsimile: (212) 474-3700
 
Email:  sbarshay@cravath.com; gschoen@cravath.com
Attn: Scott A. Barshay
  
                           
 George F. Schoen
    
   
(b)           if to Storm, Storm US or Storm BV:
Schlumberger Limited
5599 San Felipe
Suite 1700
Houston, Texas 77056
Facsimile: (713) 375-3481
Email:  ajuden@slb.com
Attn.:  Alexander C. Juden; Secretary & General Counsel
with a copy to:
 
Baker Botts L.L.P.
910 Louisiana Street
Houston, Texas  77002
Facsimile: (713) 229-7701
Email:  david.kirkland@bakerbotts.com; breen.haire@bakerbotts.com
Attn.:  J. David Kirkland Jr.
                           
 M. Breen Haire
    
   
Such addresses may be changed, from time to time, by means of a notice given in the manner provided in this Section 12.5.
 
 
 
-101-
 
 
12.6         .
Competition and Confidentiality
(a)           Each party agrees that so long as it or one of its Affiliates continues to hold an ownership interest in any of the Venture Entities and for a period of 18 months thereafter, it will not directly or indirectly engage or invest in any business in the Subsea Business in direct competition with the business of any of the Venture Entities as conducted immediately following the Closing. It is understood and agreed that (i) a party shall not be deemed to be in violation of this Section 12.6(a) as a result of any acquisition it may make of not more than 5% of the outstanding shares or other units of any security of any entity subject to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, (ii) the provisions of this Section 12.6(a) shall not apply to any business activities of any party, or any of its respective Affiliates, actually being conducted as of the date hereof, other than the Cyclone Subsea Business and the Storm Subsea Business, and (iii) this Section 12.6(a) shall not be construed to prohibit a party, directly or through any Affiliates, from hereafter acquiring and continuing to own and operate any entity that has operations that directly compete with the Subsea Business as conducted immediately following the Closing if none of the principal operations of such entity so compete. For purposes of this Section 12.6(a),  shall mean an operation or line of business of an entity that contributes more than 25% of such entitys revenues. In the event that either party acquires an entity that has operations competing directly with any of the Venture Entities, the parties agree to, and to cause the Venture Entities to, attempt to negotiate mutually agreeable terms upon which such operations could be transferred to a Venture Entity. In addition, the party that acquires an entity that has operations competing directly with any of the Venture Entities shall implement appropriate firewalls and other procedures are implemented to ensure the protection and confidentiality of the Ventures business and information. If the party that has acquired the competing business and the Venture Entities cannot reach agreement on the acquisition of the competing business by the Venture Entities, the party that has acquired the competing business shall divest itself of that business no later than the date that is 18 months after the date of acquisition of the competing business. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the provisions of this Section 12.6(a) shall not apply to a party following (i) a dissolution of the Venture pursuant to Section 11.1(a) or (ii) any other transfer of such partys interest in the Venture Entities to a third party pursuant to Article 11 that occurs within 24 months following a Change of Control Event with respect to the other party.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, this Section 12.6(a) shall not be construed to prohibit a third party that enters into a transaction with a party that constitutes a Change of Control Event from continuing to own and operate any entity that has operations that directly compete with the Subsea Business as currently conducted immediately following the Closing, so long as such third party agrees to (1) attempt to negotiate mutually agreeable terms upon which such operations could be transferred to a Venture Entity, (2) implement appropriate firewalls and other procedures to ensure the protection and confidentiality of the Ventures business and information and (3) if such third party cannot reach agreement on the acquisition of the competing business by the Venture Entities, divest itself of the competing business no later than the date that is 18 months after the date of the Change of Control Event.
principal operation
(b)           Each party agrees that so long as it or one of its Affiliates continues to hold an ownership interest in any of the Venture Entities, it shall cause the Venture Entities not to engage directly or indirectly or invest in any business in direct competition with any business of the parties outside of the Subsea Business.
 
 
 
-102-
 
 
(c)           In the event that the covenants contained in Section 12.6(a) and Section 12.6(b) are more restrictive than permitted by Applicable Law, the parties agree that the covenants contained in Section 12.6(a) and Section 12.6(b) shall be enforceable and enforced to the extent permitted by Applicable Law.
(d)           The parties shall abide by the confidentiality provisions of .
Exhibit 12.6
(e)           Each party acknowledges and agrees that the remedy at law for any breach of the requirements of this Section 12.6 would be inadequate, and agrees and consents that, without intending to limit any additional remedies that may be available, temporary and permanent injunctive and other equitable relief may be granted without proof of actual damage or inadequacy of legal remedy in any proceeding that may be brought to enforce any of the provisions of this Section 12.6.
12.7         .  If so requested by a party or a Venture Entity, whether in connection with the matters set forth in Article 8 or otherwise, each of the applicable Venture Entities (if requested by a party) or parties (if requested by a Venture Entity) shall cooperate, and shall cause their respective employees to cooperate, with such party and its Affiliates and their counsel in defending or prosecuting any litigation or Claim brought by such party against any third party or by any third party against such party. Cooperation shall include causing the employees of the Venture Entities to furnish documents, testify as witnesses, appear for depositions and take other similar actions as a party or Affiliate thereof may reasonably request. The cost of providing any such support shall be the responsibility of the requesting party. However, the parties agree that if a Venture Entity employee or party employee is subpoenaed by an unrelated third party in connection with any such litigation or Claim, no cost reimbursement request will be made to Cyclone, Storm or any Venture Entity or any of their respective Affiliates in connection therewith.
Litigation and Claim Support
12.8         .
Enforcement
(a)           Each of the parties agrees that it shall take no action to prevent any of the Venture Entities from seeking to enforce any of the obligations of any of the other parties, as the case may be, under this Agreement or to obtain damages as a result of any breach thereof. Each of the parties agrees that it shall not withhold its consent, and shall cause its representatives on the board of directors, management committee or other governing body of any of the Venture Entities not to withhold their consent, to any of the Venture Entities taking any such action against it.
(b)           Each of the parties acknowledges and agrees that the other party would be damaged irreparably in the event any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or otherwise are breached. Accordingly, each of the parties agrees that the other party shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of the provisions of this Agreement and to enforce specifically this Agreement and the terms and provisions hereof, in addition to any other remedy to which it may be entitled, at law or in equity. The parties rights under this Section 12.8(b) shall terminate on the Closing Date except with respect to their rights relating to the enforcement of the terms and provisions of covenants and agreements requiring performance from and after the Closing Date.
 
 
 
-103-
 
 
12.9         .  This Agreement, together with each of the exhibits and disclosure letters hereto, and the other Transaction Documents (including any exhibits or schedules thereto) constitute the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the matters covered hereby and thereby and supersedes all prior agreements and understandings among the parties, with respect to the matters discussed herein or in the other Transaction Documents. In addition to and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Agreement shall supersede in its entirety the Confidentiality Agreement effective as of July 20, 2012, as amended on August 30, 2012, between Cyclone and Storm US. If there is any conflict between this Agreement and any other Transaction Document, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
Entire Agreement
; Conflicts
12.10       .
[Reserved]
12.11       .  Whenever this Agreement requires Storm or Cyclone to take any action, such requirement shall be deemed to be a requirement of the applicable subsidiary or subsidiaries of Cyclone or Storm which holds the interests in the Venture Entity or Venture Entities in the country in which the action is required to be taken and a guarantee of such performance by Cyclone or Storm, as applicable.
Obligations of Storm and Cyclone
12.12       .
Publicity
(a)           No party shall make any press release or other public statement or disclosure (including communications to employees, customers and suppliers) regarding this Agreement, its contents or the transactions contemplated hereby without giving the other parties reasonable prior notice thereof and the opportunity to review and comment upon such release, statement or disclosure unless and only to the extent that disclosure is required under Applicable Law.
(b)           Cyclone and Storm agree that, to the extent practicable, they will attempt to coordinate any material public disclosures regarding the Venture. Cyclone and Storm further agree that, to the extent practicable, they will each circulate to each other proposed drafts of relevant portions of (i) any press release that is intended to be released nationally in the U.S. or internationally or (ii) any public filing with the SEC that, in either case, contains disclosures that are (A) material to Cyclone or Storm, as applicable, (B) not already publicly known or been previously disclosed to the public and (C) related to the Venture.
12.13       .  If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement or the application thereof to any Person or circumstance, at any time or to any extent, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement (or the application of such provision in other jurisdictions or to Persons or circumstances other than those to which it was held invalid or unenforceable) shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, any such term, provision, covenant or restriction shall be restricted in applicability or reformed to the minimum extent required for such to be enforceable. This provision shall be interpreted and enforced to give effect to the original written intent of the parties hereto prior to the determination of such invalidity or unenforceability.
Severability
 
 
 
-104-
 
 
12.14       .  Each of the parties irrevocably agrees that if any dispute between the parties relating to this Agreement cannot be resolved amicably by the parties, any action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof brought by the other party hereto or its successors or assigns, shall be brought and determined in a Texas state court or U.S. federal district court in Texas, and each of the parties hereby irrevocably submits with regard to any such action or proceeding for itself, generally and unconditionally, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts; , that such consent to jurisdiction is solely for the purpose referred to in this Section 12.14 and shall not be deemed to be general submission to the jurisdiction of said courts or in the State of Texas other than for such purpose.
Jurisdiction and Venue
provided, however
12.15       .  No consent or waiver, express or implied, by a party to or of any breach or default by any other party in the performance by such other party of its obligations hereunder shall be deemed or construed to be a consent or waiver to or of any other breach or default in the performance by such other party of the same or any other obligations of such other party hereunder.  Failure on the part of a party to complain of any act or failure to act of any other party or to declare any other party in default, irrespective of how long such failure continues, shall not constitute a waiver by such party of its rights hereunder.  The giving of consent by a party in any one instance shall not limit or waive the necessity to obtain such partys consent in any future instance.
Non-Waiver
remainder of page intentionally left blank
[
]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-105-
 
 
 
, the undersigned have duly executed and delivered this Agreement as of the date first above written.
In Witness Whereof
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.2
 
 
 
This SHAREHOLDERS AGREEMENT (this ) dated as of _______, is entered into by and between Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware Corporation (), Schlumberger Limited, a Curaao corporation (), Schlumberger Technology Corporation, a Texas corporation (), and Schlumberger B.V., a Netherlands limited liability company (and, together with Cyclone, Storm and Storm US, the ), Newco, a Delaware limited liability company (), Newco, a ( and, together with US Venture Entity, the ), and __, a Delaware corporation ().
Agreement
[
]
Cyclone
Storm
Storm US
Storm BV
 
Shareholders
[
]
US Venture Entity
[
]
[jurisdiction and entity type]
Non-U.S.
 
Venture Entity
Venture Entities
[
]
US EmployCo
 
 
WHEREAS, Cyclone and Storm own, directly or through various subsidiaries, the other Shareholders; and
 
WHEREAS, Cyclone and Storm US own 60% and 40% ownership interests, respectively, in US Venture Entity; and
 
WHEREAS, or one or more of Cyclones Affiliates, on the one hand, and Storm BV, on the other, own 60% and 40% ownership interests, respectively, in Non-U.S. Venture Entity; and
 
WHEREAS, Cyclone and Storm US own 60% and 40% ownership interests, respectively, in US EmployCo; and
 
WHEREAS, the parties believe that it is in their best interests to provide for, among other things, an Executive Committee with respect to the Venture Entities and US EmployCo;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, the mutual covenants and agreements contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
1.1.          .
Shareholders Representatives
 
(a)      Cyclone shall appoint three senior representatives (one of whom shall be the CEO (as defined below) of the Venture Entities and one of whom shall be the chief executive officer of Cyclone) and Storm shall appoint two senior representatives (one of whom shall be the chief executive officer of Storm) (the ) to serve on an Executive Committee (the ), to direct the management of the Venture Entities and provide general oversight of the Venture Entities, it being understood that (i) during any period in which the Venture does not have a CEO, Cyclone may appoint an interim Representative to serve as one of its three Representatives until a CEO is appointed as provided in Section 1.1(b) and (ii) during any period in which Cyclone or Storm does not have a chief executive officer or the chief executive officer is unavailable to serve as a Representative, Cyclone or Storm, as applicable, may appoint an interim Representative to serve as one of its Representatives until it has appointed a new chief executive officer or its chief executive officer becomes available to serve as a Representative.  The Venture Entities shall be subject to the oversight of the Committee and the responsibilities of the Committee shall include approval and adoption of the annual business plan and capital and operating budgets of the Venture Entities; approval of any unbudgeted expenditures in excess of $5,000,000, distributions, capital calls and financing decisions; the appointment, removal and compensation of senior management of the Venture Entities; and oversight with respect to the compliance by the Venture Entities with the corporate policies applicable to the Venture in accordance with Section 2.4 with respect to ethics, anti-bribery laws and other similar matters, in each case in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. The parties agree to take any and all actions necessary or advisable to cause the Venture Entities and US EmployCo to effect the decisions made by the Committee and to otherwise act (and to refrain from acting) in compliance with the provisions of this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, each Shareholder intends that neither Non-U.S. Venture Entity nor any of its subsidiaries will be engaged in a trade or business within the United States as that phrase is used in Section 882(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Representatives
Committee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)      One of the Representatives appointed by Cyclone shall be designated by Cyclone to serve as the Chief Executive Officer of the Venture (as defined below) (the ).  As provided in Section 1.1(a), during any period in which the Venture does not have a CEO, Cyclone will have the right to appoint an interim Representative until a CEO is appointed.  The initial CEO shall be __.  The CEO shall oversee the operations of the Venture and shall perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Committee.  The CEO may not be removed as CEO except by Cyclone, which may appoint a successor CEO; , that any replacement of the CEO shall be subject to the consent of Storm, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed.  To facilitate the orderly conduct of meetings of the Committee, the CEO shall preside at such meetings, and in his absence another Representative appointed by Cyclone shall preside.
CEO
[
]
provided
 
(c)      Except as otherwise provided, the Committee shall act at meetings thereof duly convened and held as provided in this Agreement.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 1.1(e), a quorum shall exist for the transaction of business by the Committee if at least two of the Representatives appointed by Cyclone and one Representative appointed by Storm are present.  Each Representative shall have one vote on any matter submitted to the Committee for approval.  Except as otherwise provided herein, the vote of a majority of the Representatives at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall constitute the act of the Committee.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, a quorum shall be deemed to exist at a meeting if (i) no Representatives appointed by Storm are present, in person or by proxy, (ii) no Representatives appointed by Storm were present, in person or by proxy, at each of the two meetings immediately preceding such meeting and (iii) at least one Representative appointed by Cyclone is present, in person or by proxy.
 
 
(d)      The Representatives may participate in a meeting thereof by means of conference telephone, video conference or similar communications equipment allowing all participants to hear each other.  Participation by such means shall constitute presence in person at a meeting.
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
 
 
(e)      Notwithstanding Section 1.1(c), any action required or permitted by this Agreement to be taken at a meeting of the Committee may be taken if a majority of the Representatives consent in writing to the taking of such action; , that the approval of the Annual Financial Plan and the Strategic Plan pursuant to Section 1.3 and the actions specified in Section 1.4 may only be taken if all of the Representatives consent in writing to the taking of such action. Notice and a copy of any proposed consent pursuant to this Section 1.1(e) shall be sent concurrently to all Representatives in accordance with Section 3.4, and no such consent requiring only majority approval of the Representatives shall become effective until the earliest of the following: (i) at least one Representative appointed by each of Cyclone and Storm has consented in writing, (ii) if a Representative appointed by Storm calls a special meeting within seven days of the date that the proposed consent was sent to all of the Representatives to discuss the subject of such consent, immediately after such meeting takes place (and regardless of whether a quorum is present) or (iii) if no Representative appointed by Storm calls a special meeting within seven days of the date that the proposed consent was sent to all of the Representatives to discuss the subject of such consent, immediately after such seven-day period.
provided
 
(f)      The Committee may hold meetings, both regular and special, in any mutually agreed upon location.
 
(g)      Regular meetings of the Committee may be held without notice at such time and at such place as shall from time to time be determined by unanimous consent of the Representatives, but no less frequently than twice each calendar year.
 
(h)      Special meetings of the Committee may be called by any Representative on 14 days notice to the other Representatives in accordance with Section 3.4.  A Representative may waive notice of a meeting either before or after a meeting.  Any Representative attending a meeting, unless he attends for the specific purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business at the meeting because he in good faith believes that the meeting has not been properly called or convened, shall be deemed to have received proper notice.
 
(i)      A Representative may only be removed or replaced by the party that appointed him or her.
 
(j)      Any Representative may (i) designate an alternate person to represent him as a Representative at a meeting of the Committee and for all purposes incidental thereto or (ii) give a Representative appointed by the same party (or an alternate designated by either such Representative) his or her written proxy to vote at any meeting.  Any Representative represented by proxy at a meeting shall be deemed to be in attendance for quorum purposes.
 
1.2.          .
Actions Requiring Presentation to the Executive Committee
 
The following matters shall be presented to the Committee for its approval:
 
(a)      Any matter that would require the special vote required under Sections 1.3 or 1.4;
 
(b)      The Strategic Plan (as defined below) and any annual updates of the same;
 
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
(c)      The Annual Plan (as defined below) and any quarterly updates of the same;
 
(d)      Appointment and removal of the senior management team (other than the CEO, whose appointment and removal is governed by Section 1.1(b), and the controller and the marketing and technical director of the Venture); the controller and the marketing and technical director of the Venture may not be removed from such position except by Storm, which may appoint a successor to each such position; , that any replacement of the controller or the marketing and technical director shall be subject to the consent of Cyclone, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed. The joint venture will endeavor to select the best candidates for senior management positions from Cyclone, Storm or third parties and to ensure that each shareholder has roughly the representation proportional to its shareholding among the management team;
provided
 
(e)      Compensation of the senior management team; , that the vote of two Representatives appointed by Cyclone (other than the CEO) shall constitute the act of the Committee with respect to the compensation of the CEO; and
provided
 
(f)      Matters involving compliance with the corporate policies applicable to the Venture in accordance with Section 2.4 regarding ethics, anti-bribery and other similar matters, including without limitation any decision to report alleged violations of such policies to governmental authorities.
 
1.3.          .
Annual Plan; Strategic Plan
 
(a)      The Venture shall provide to the Committee, in preliminary form no later than September 1 of each fiscal year and in final form no later than October 31 of each fiscal year (except with respect to the initial Annual Plan, which shall be agreed in preliminary form by the Shareholders at or prior to the Closing (as such term is defined in the Master Formation Agreement) and shall be agreed in final form within 90 days following the Closing), a reasonably detailed financial plan for the Ventures subsequent fiscal year, together with a financial and capital budget (including cash flow analysis) (the ), and a reasonably detailed operational plan and budget that outlines, among other things, the Ventures operations, capital plan, research and development projects, human resources requirements and estimated capital costs and the timing for the implementation of such operations, plan, projects, requirements and expenditures (the , and together with the Annual Financial Plan, the ). The Annual Operational Plan will provide operational detail of how the Strategic Plan will be implemented in a given fiscal year. Notwithstanding Section 1.1(c), the Annual Financial Plan will be subject to the review and approval of each Representative. The Annual Operational Plan will be subject to the review and approval of the Committee.  The Representatives shall use commercially reasonable efforts to approve or amend the Annual Plan within 30 days after the date on which it is first delivered to the Committee.  If at any time a decision cannot be reached by the Committee with respect to approval of the Annual Plan during such 30-day period, the most recent Annual Plan (the ) shall be adopted with the following modifications for the Venture:  (i) to the extent that the Representatives are able to reach agreement with respect to any portion of the new Annual Plan, such portion as to which agreement exists shall be applied as part of the Default Annual Plan; and (ii) with respect to all expenses, the portion of the Annual Plan for the preceding fiscal year relating to such expenses (excluding the prior fiscal years extraordinary and nonrecurring items, including extraordinary and nonrecurring capital expenditures, but including any scheduled commitments or expenditures for the then current fiscal year), adjusted by a factor to reflect general industry-wide changes in prices for fixed expenses together with an adjustment for variable expenses in accordance with the projected variances in their bases and for contractual commitments in accordance with their terms.
Annual Financial Plan
Annual Operational Plan
Annual Plan
Default Annual Plan
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
 
 
(b)      The Venture shall provide to the Committee, in preliminary form no later than September 1 of each fiscal year and in final form no later than October 31 of each fiscal year (except with respect to the initial Strategic Plan, which shall be agreed in preliminary form by the Shareholders at or prior to the Closing and shall be agreed in final form within 90 days following the Closing), a reasonably detailed strategic, technological and financial plan for the Ventures subsequent threefiscal years that outlines the Ventures market outlook and trends, growth plans and assumptions, technology gaps, research and development themes and initiatives, and other strategic initiatives and the projected capital costs and earnings contribution for each (the ).  The senior management team of the Venture will review the Strategic Plan annually to determine if any modifications are required and, if required, will submit its recommended modifications to the Committee for approval.  Notwithstanding Section 1.1(c), the Strategic Plan will be subject to the review and approval of each Representative.  The Representatives shall use commercially reasonable efforts to approve or amend the Strategic Plan within 30 days after the date on which it is first delivered to the Committee.  If at any time a decision cannot be reached by the Committee with respect to approval of the Strategic Plan during such 30-day period, the most recent Strategic Plan shall be continued.
 
Strategic Plan
 
1.4.          .
Actions Requiring a Special Vote of the Representatives
 
Notwithstanding Section 1.1(c) and in addition to the approval of the Annual Financial Plan and the Strategic Plan provided in Section 1.3, the Venture Entities and their subsidiaries shall not take any of the following actions unless approved unanimously by all Representatives, and such unanimous approval shall constitute the approval of the Committee with respect thereto:
 
(a)      Any change in the scope or purpose of a Venture Entity or US EmployCo or entry into any line of business in which the Venture Entity or US EmployCo is not then engaged;
 
(b)      Take any action with respect to
 
 
 
 
 
-5-
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)      Making capital expenditures not reflected in the current Annual Plan or Strategic Plan in excess of $10,000,000 in any fiscal year;
 
(d)      Any sale, lease, transfer or other disposition of any asset or group of assets (other than obsolete equipment) in any transaction or series of related transactions, unless (i) the book value and fair market value of such assets or group of assets does not exceed $5,000,000 in any trailing 12-month period; (ii) such sale, lease, transfer or disposition is in the ordinary course of business and not in excess of $10,000,000  in any trailing 12-month period, or (iii) contemplated by the Annual Plan;
 
(e)      A Venture Entitys incurrence or assumption of Indebtedness (other than customer advances, performance bonds and similar forms of Indebtedness incurred in the ordinary course of business) in excess of $25,000,000;
 
(f)      Make any distributions (other than distributions to fund Shareholders payments of any taxes and annual distributions of the free cash flow of the Venture Entities pursuant to Section 7.11 of the Master Formation Agreement) by a Venture Entity or US EmployCo;
 
(g)      Taking any act that in good faith could be interpreted as contrary to the corporate policies applicable to the Venture in accordance with Section 2.4 regarding ethics, anti-bribery and other similar matters, or the application of any material change in such corporate policies to the Venture Entities;
 
(h)      Take any action with respect to
 
 
 
 
 
 
-6-
 
 
 
(i)      Entry into any contract between such Venture Entity or any of its Affiliates, on the one hand, and Cyclone, Storm or any of their respective Affiliates, on the other hand, including all terms and conditions of such contract and any amendment thereto, including transactions for headquarters and corporate allocations and administrative, operational, support and transition services from Cyclone or Storm to the Venture;
 
(j)      Entry into any contract for the sale of products or services by Cyclone, Storm or any of their respective Affiliates to a Venture Entity or by a Venture Entity to Cyclone, Storm or any of their respective Affiliates, unless such contract is on arms-length terms that are no less favorable to the Venture in the aggregate than those available from unrelated third parties for similar transactions in similar circumstances;
 
(k)      Entry into any joint development, intellectual property licensing or technology transfer agreements between a Venture Entity and any third party (including agreements with Cyclone, Storm or any of their respective Affiliates) taking into account the review and recommendation of the Technical Committee (as defined below) with respect to such agreement, excluding agreements with customers or suppliers in the ordinary course of business; and
 
(l)      Make capital calls by a Venture Entity or US EmployCo, unless such capital call is consistent with the Annual Plan or Strategic Plan then in place.
 
 means, with respect to any Person, any other Person that directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the Person in question; , that no Venture Entity shall be considered an Affiliate of any of Cyclone, Storm, Storm US or Storm BV. For purposes of this definition,  means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities or general partnership or managing member interests, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
provided, however
control
 
 by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person, or in any manner, providing for the payment of any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person or otherwise protecting the holder of such Indebtedness or other obligation against loss (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by obtaining letters of credit, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, or to take-or-pay or otherwise), provided that the term  shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
Guarantee
 
 of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money or with respect to deposits or advances of any kind, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person upon which interest charges are customarily paid, (d) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property or assets purchased by such Person, (e) all obligations of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding trade accounts payable, trade advertising and accrued obligations), (f) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (g) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (h) all capital lease obligations of such Person, (i) all obligations of such Person in respect of interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements or other interest or exchange rate hedging arrangements and (j) all obligations of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and bankers acceptances.  The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership in which such Person is a general partner, other than to the extent that the instrument or agreement evidencing such Indebtedness expressly limits the liability of such Person in respect thereof.
Indebtedness
 
 
 
-7-
 
 
 
 means, with respect to any property or other asset of any Person (or any revenues, income or profits of that Person therefrom) (in each case whether the same is consensual or nonconsensual or arises by contract, operation of law, legal process or otherwise), (i) any mortgage, lien, security interest, pledge, attachment, levy or other charge or encumbrance of any kind thereupon or in respect thereof or (ii) any other arrangement under which the same is transferred, sequestered or otherwise identified with the intention of subjecting the same to, or making the same available for, the payment or performance of any liability in priority to the payment of the ordinary, unsecured creditors of that Person.  For purposes of this Agreement, a Person will be deemed to own subject to a Lien any asset that it has acquired or holds subject to the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease, synthetic lease or other title retention agreement relating to that asset.
Lien
 
 means any corporation, limited liability company, individual, joint stock company, joint venture, partnership, unincorporated association, governmental authority or other entity.
Person
 
 means the Venture Entities, US EmployCo, and their respective subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Venture
 
1.5.          .
Notice of Developments Regarding the Venture
 
The Venture shall give prompt notice to each Representative of any material developments or changes affecting the Venture or its business, operations, assets, liabilities or prospects, including without limitation: (i) any suit, action, arbitration, investigation, claim or litigation against a Venture Entity or any of its officers or employees in their capacities as such (which shall include any pending action or action threatened in writing) involving amounts exceeding $1,000,000; (ii) any change by the Venture in its accounting methods, principles or practices other than as required by generally accepted accounting principles; and (iii) any casualty loss affecting any material portion of the assets or businesses of the Venture.
 
1.6.          .
Indemnification
 
At the Closing, the Venture Entities shall enter into an indemnification agreement in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto with each Representative and each member of a Governing Body (as defined below), in each case, who is an employee or a secondee of a Venture Entity or US EmployCo.  Each of the Shareholders shall severally guarantee (in accordance with its Percentage Interest) the obligations of the Venture Entities under such indemnification agreements.  The constituent documents of each Venture Entity shall permit and provide for such indemnification.
 
 
 
-8-
 
 
 
1.7.          .
US EmployCo
 
If Cyclone or Storm (or any of their respective Affiliates) shall acquire the interest of the other in the Venture Entities such that Cyclone or Storm then owns 100% of the Venture, directly or indirectly, Cyclone and Storm, or their respective Affiliates, for so long as they are shareholders of US EmployCo, shall cause US EmployCo to continue to provide services to the US Venture Entity on the same terms as such services are being provided at the time of that acquisition.
 
1.8.          .
Capital Calls
 
If a Shareholder fails to contribute all or part of any capital call by a Venture Entity required of such Shareholder in accordance with this Agreement, then such Shareholder shall be in default hereunder.  If the defaulting Shareholder fails to cure such default within 14 days after receipt of written notice thereof from the Committee or any other Shareholder, then any distributions to which the defaulting Shareholder would otherwise be entitled shall be reduced by the appropriate Venture Entity, and applied to fund the defaulted capital call, until the default (including any accrued and unpaid interest) is cured.  For the avoidance of doubt, the rights and remedies referred to in this Section 1.8 shall be in addition to, and not in limitation of, any other rights or remedies available to any non-defaulting Shareholder or the Venture Entities under this Agreement at law, in equity or otherwise.
 
 
 
2.1.          .
Audit and Inspection Rights
 
Each of Cyclone and Storm and their respective subsidiaries and duly authorized representatives (the ) shall have the right, at any time and from time to time, upon reasonable prior notice, to inspect, review and/or conduct an audit of the records of the Venture during regular business hours.  In connection with such inspection, review or audit, the Venture shall make available its books, records and accounts during regular business hours upon reasonable notice.  Access by Auditing Parties to Venture personnel, documentation, systems and records shall not be unreasonably withheld.  Any inspection, review or audit by an Auditing Party in accordance with this paragraph shall be at the sole cost and expense of Cyclone or Storm, as the case may be.
Auditing Parties
 
2.2.          .
Governing Bodies of the Venture Entities and US EmployCo
 
(a)      The governing bodies of the Venture Entities and US EmployCo (each a ) shall be comprised of five members, three of which shall be appointed by Cyclone and two of which shall be appointed by Storm.  A member of a Governing Body may be removed or replaced by the party that appointed him.  In addition, promptly following the request of the other party, each of Cyclone and Storm shall act to remove any member of a Governing Body appointed by such Shareholder if such member has not acted in accordance with the direction of the Committee.
Governing Body
 
 
 
-9-
 
 
 
(b)      With respect to the Governing Body of the US Venture Entity and US EmployCo:
 
(i)        the members of each such Governing Body shall be persons who are based in the United States; and
 
(ii)       each such Governing Body shall hold all meetings at one or more locations within the United States.
 
(c)      With respect to the Governing Body of the Non-U.S. Venture Entity:
 
(i)        the members of such Governing Body shall be persons who are based outside the United States; and
 
(ii)       such Governing Body shall hold all meetings at one or more locations outside the United States.
 
2.3.           .
Technical Committee
 
Cyclone shall appoint two representatives, Storm shall appoint two representatives and the Venture shall appoint tworepresentatives (the ) to serve on a Technical Steering Committee (the ) to oversee technical direction of the Venture and the fulfillment of research and development obligations, including any joint development, licensing or technology transfer agreements and collaborations with or developments funded by the Shareholders and their respective Affiliates.  These TSC Members shall be granted broad access to the research and technology development plans and projects of the Venture, except for (a) any such plan or project that involves any independent third party and is protected by confidentiality provisions that prohibit such access by Storm, in which case Storm and its TSC Members will not have access to any aspect of that plan or project, or (b) any such plan or project that involves any independent third party and is protected by confidentiality provisions that prohibit such access by Cyclone, in which case Cyclone and its TSC Members will not have access to any aspect of that plan or project. The Technical Committee shall meet at least twice annually.  A quorum shall exist if at least one TSC Member appointed by Cyclone, one TSC Member appointed by Storm and one TSC Member appointed by the Venture are present.  Each TSC Member shall have one vote on any matters submitted to the Technical Committee for approval.  The vote of a majority of the TSC Members at a meeting at which quorum is present shall constitute the act of the Technical Committee.  Up to twice per year when requested by the TSC Members from either party or the Venture, each Venture Entity shall present a research and development report to the Technical Committee detailing (i) existing and planned research and development projects, (ii) current status, significant progress and significant failures of ongoing research and development projects, (iii) patent status, invention disclosures, prosecution status and maintenance status and (iv) such other information as any TSC Member may reasonably request. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Technical Committee shall be limited to an advisory role only.
 
TSC Members
Technical Committee
 
 
 
-10-
 
 
 
2.4.          .
Venture Policies
 
The Venture shall initially be governed by Cyclones policies with respect to any ethics, anti-bribery law or other similar matter. The parties agree to periodically review such corporate policies applicable to the Venture and to cooperate in good faith to make such changes, amendments or revisions to such corporate policies as Storm may reasonably request.
 
2.5.          .
Financial Statements
 
(a)      The Venture Entities shall provide to the Shareholders combined financial information, prepared in accordance with Cyclones accounting policies and practices, within 30 days following the end of each calendar month.  Such financial information shall include an income statement, a statement of cash flows and a balance sheet and shall be prepared on a consolidated basis for the Venture Entities and on a consolidating basis for each of the Venture Entities separately, for the calendar month, the calendar quarter to date and the year to date period.
 
(b)      There shall be an annual audit of the aggregate operations and businesses of the Venture Entities, taken as a whole, conducted by Ernst & Young LLP, or whatever independent auditor Cyclone is then using, the first of which shall occur as of the Closing Date. The parties agree to, and agree to cause each of the Venture Entities to, cooperate with such independent auditor with respect to such audits and to make the results thereof available to Cyclone and Storm.  The audited financial statements shall be prepared on a consolidated basis for the Venture Entities and on a consolidating basis for each of the Venture Entities separately.
 
 
 
3.1.          .
Amendment
 
This Agreement may not be amended, altered or modified except by agreement of the Shareholders.
 
3.2.          .
Governing Law
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas applicable to Contracts made and to be performed therein, without giving effect to the principles of conflicts of law thereof.
 
3.3.          .
Counterparts; Delivery by Electronic Transmission
 
This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument. This Agreement, and any amendments hereto, to the extent signed and delivered by means of facsimile or email, shall be treated in all respects as an original contract and shall be considered to have the same binding legal effects as if it were the original signed version thereof delivered in person.
 
 
 
-11-
 
 
 
3.4.           .
Notices
 
All notices, requests, demands and other communications made in connection with this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given on the date delivered, if delivered personally, by reputable overnight delivery service that requires a signature on delivery or sent by email or facsimile machine with confirmation of receipt to the Persons identified below, or three days after mailing in the U.S. Mail if mailed by certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed as follows:
 
if to Cyclone:
 
Cameron International Corporation
1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700
Houston, Texas 77027
Facsimile: (713) 513-3421
Email: william.lemmer@c-a-m.com
Attn.: General Counsel
 
with a copy to:
 
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP
Worldwide Plaza
825 Eighth Avenue
New York, NY  10019
Facsimile: (212) 474-3700
 
Email:    sbarshay@cravath.com; gschoen@cravath.com
Attn:  Scott A. Barshay
  
George F. Schoen
 
if to Storm, Storm US or Storm BV:
Schlumberger Limited
5599 San Felipe
Suite 1700
Houston, Texas 77056
Facsimile: (713) 375-3481
Email:    ajuden@slb.com
Attn.:    Alexander C. Juden; Secretary & General Counsel
 
 
 
 
-12-
 
 
with a copy to:
 
Baker Botts L.L.P.
910 Louisiana Street
Houston, Texas  77002
Facsimile: (713) 229-7701
Email:   david.kirkland@bakerbotts.com; breen.haire@bakerbotts.com
Attn.:   J. David Kirkland Jr.
                                                             M. Breen Haire
 
Such addresses may be changed, from time to time, by means of a notice given in the manner provided in this Section 3.4.
 
3.5.          .
Enforcement
 
(a)      Each of the parties agrees that it shall take no action to prevent any of the Venture Entities from seeking to enforce any of the obligations of any of the other parties, as the case may be, under this Agreement or to obtain damages as a result of any breach thereof. Each of the parties agrees that it shall not withhold its consent, and shall cause its representatives on the board of directors, management committee or other governing body of any of the Venture Entities not to withhold their consent, to any of the Venture Entities taking any such action against it.
 
(b)      Each of the parties acknowledges and agrees that the other party would be damaged irreparably in the event any of the provisions of this Agreement are not performed in accordance with their specific terms or otherwise are breached. Accordingly, each of the parties agrees that the other party shall be entitled to an injunction or injunctions to prevent breaches of the provisions of this Agreement and to enforce specifically this Agreement and the terms and provisions hereof, in addition to any other remedy to which it may be entitled, at law or in equity.
 
3.6.          .
Survival of Rights
 
Except as provided herein to the contrary, this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties and their permitted successors and assigns.
 
3.7.          .
Terminology
 
All personal pronouns used in this Agreement, whether used in the masculine, feminine, or neuter gender, shall include all other genders; and the singular shall include the plural and vice versa.  Titles of Articles and Sections are for convenience only, and neither limit nor amplify the provisions of this Agreement itself.  Unless otherwise specified, all references in this Agreement to Articles, Sections or Exhibits are deemed references to the corresponding Articles and Sections of, or Exhibits to, this Agreement, each such Exhibit being made a part hereof for all purposes.  The term  shall mean Cyclone, Storm, the other Shareholders and US EmployCo and the term  shall mean any one of them.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings specified in the Master Formation Agreement.
parties
party
 
 
 
-13-
 
 
 
3.8.           .
Further Assurances
 
Each party agrees to do all acts and things and to make, execute and deliver such written instruments, as shall from time to time be reasonably required to carry out the terms and provisions of this Agreement.
 
3.9.           .
Parties in Interest; Assignment
 
This Agreement and all of the provisions hereof shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and it is not intended to confer upon any other Person any rights or remedies hereunder, except that each Representative (as defined in the Master Formation Agreement) and each member of a Governing Body (as defined in the Master Formation Agreement), in each case, who is an employee or secondee of a Venture Entity or US EmployCo, shall be considered to be a third-party beneficiary of Section 1.6. Subject to Section 11 of the Master Formation Agreement, neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations hereunder may be assigned by any of the parties without the prior written consent of the other parties, except that Cyclone, Storm, Storm US or Storm BV may at any time assign any or all of its rights or obligations hereunder to one of its wholly owned subsidiaries (but no such assignment shall relieve Cyclone, Storm, Storm US or Storm BV, as the case may be, of any of its obligations under this Agreement).
 
3.10.           .
Severability
 
If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement or the application thereof to any Person or circumstance, at any time or to any extent, is held by a court of competent jurisdiction or other Governmental Authority to be invalid, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions of this Agreement (or the application of such provision in other jurisdictions or to Persons or circumstances other than those to which it was held invalid or unenforceable) shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, any such term, provision, covenant or restriction shall be restricted in applicability or reformed to the minimum extent required for such to be enforceable. This provision shall be interpreted and enforced to give effect to the original written intent of the parties hereto prior to the determination of such invalidity or unenforceability.
 
3.11.           .
Obligations of Storm and Cyclone
 
Whenever this Agreement requires Storm or Cyclone to take any action, such requirement shall be deemed to be a requirement of the applicable subsidiary or subsidiaries of Cyclone or Storm which holds the interests in the Venture Entity or Venture Entities in the country in which the action is required to be taken and a guarantee of such performance by Cyclone or Storm, as applicable.
 
 
 
 
-14-
 
 
 
3.12.           .
Jurisdiction and Venue
 
Each of the parties irrevocably agrees that if any dispute between the parties relating to this Agreement cannot be resolved amicably by the parties, any action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof brought by the other party hereto or its successors or assigns, shall be brought and determined in a Texas state court or U.S. federal district court in Texas, and each of the parties hereby irrevocably submits with regard to any such action or proceeding for itself, generally and unconditionally, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts; , that such consent to jurisdiction is solely for the purpose referred to in this Section 3.12 and shall not be deemed to be general submission to the jurisdiction of said courts or in the State of Texas other than for such purpose.
provided, however
 
3.13.           .
Non-Waiver
 
No consent or waiver, express or implied, by a party to or of any breach or default by any other party in the performance by such other party of its obligations hereunder shall be deemed or construed to be a consent or waiver to or of any other breach or default in the performance by such other party of the same or any other obligations of such other party hereunder.  Failure on the part of a party to complain of any act or failure to act of any other party or to declare any other party in default, irrespective of how long such failure continues, shall not constitute a waiver by such party of its rights hereunder.  The giving of consent by a party in any one instance shall not limit or waive the necessity to obtain such partys consent in any future instance.
 
3.14.           .
No Fiduciary Duties of Shareholders
 
To the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law (as defined in the Master Formation Agreement) (including Section 18-1101 of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act (6 Del. C. Section 18-101, et seq., as amended from time to time (the )), notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement or otherwise of Applicable Law, including any in equity or at law, no Shareholder (and solely in their capacity as such, no Representative) shall have any fiduciary duty to the Venture Entities, US EmployCo or any other Shareholders (or any other person or entity bound by this Agreement or the Master Formation Agreement) by reason of this Agreement or the Master Formation Agreement or the existence of the Venture Entities or US EmployCo or their respective ownership interests therein, except that each Shareholder shall be subject to the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing and to the covenants and express obligations set forth in this Agreement and the Master Formation Agreement.  The provisions of this Agreement and the Master Formation Agreement, to the extent that they eliminate the duties of a Shareholder (and the Representatives, solely in their capacity as such) otherwise existing at law or in equity, are agreed by the parties hereto to eliminate such other duties of such Shareholder (and the Representatives, solely in their capacity as such), to the maximum extent permitted by Applicable Law.
Delaware Act
 
 
 
 
 
-15-
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above set forth.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


