FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20120418170627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On April 17, 2012, the Board of Directors of Cameron International Corporation (the Company or Cameron) amended the Companys Bylaws to adopt changes to Article II, Section 2 Annual Meetings. The Section was revised to delete the reference to plurality vote to conform to the amendments approved on February 18, 2010 adopting a majority vote standard for non-contested elections of directors. No other changes were made to the Bylaws. The full text of the Bylaws is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference. The amendment to the Bylaws is effective as of April 17, 2012.
 
 
On April 11, 2012, a complaint was filed against Cameron and its Board of Directors in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (the Complaint). The Complaint alleges, among other things, that the proposals with respect to amendments to the Companys certificate of incorporation on declassification of the board of directors and exclusive forum, as well as the proposal to restate the Companys certificate of incorporation, described in the Companys 2012 Proxy Statement for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Proxy Statement), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 28, 2012, contain certain errors and fail to provide all information material to the Companys stockholders vote. The foregoing description of the Complaint is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Complaint, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
On April 17, 2012, the Companys Board of Directors determined that the proposals with respect to the amendment and restatement of the Companys certificate of incorporation could be refined to clarify their purpose and intended application.  As such, concurrently herewith, the Company plans to file a supplement to the Proxy Statement (the Supplement) as definitive additional materials under cover of Schedule 14A.  The Supplement updates the disclosure in the Proxy Statement with respect to Proposals 4, 5 and 6, and should be read in conjunction with the Proxy Statement, which in all respects other than the updates in the Supplement remains as described therein.  Stockholders of record will be mailed a copy of the Supplement.  Stockholders who hold their shares in street-name, that is other than directly in their own names, but rather in the name of a bank, broker of other holder of record, will receive a copy of the Supplement directly from their bank, broker, or other holder of record.  The Supplement will also be made available as described in the Companys Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Materials (the Notice), mailed to stockholders on or about March 28, 2012, and will be made available on the Companys website, , as well as on the SECs website, .
www.c-a-m.com
www.sec.gov
Additional Information and Where to Find It
Cameron stockholders are urged to read the Proxy Statement, the Supplement and any additional amendments or supplements thereto as well as any other relevant documents that Cameron will file with the SEC when they become available because they contain important information. Cameron stockholders may obtain the Proxy Statement, the Supplement and any additional amendments or supplements thereto, without charge, as described in the Notice and at the SECs website (https://www.sec.gov) as well as at Camerons website (http://www.c-a-m.com). Stockholders may also obtain printed copies of these documents without charge by writing: Cameron, 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700, Houston, Texas 77027, Attn: Corporate Secretary, by telephoning: Cameron, 713-513-3322, or by following the instructions on the Notice for requesting a hard copy of the proxy materials.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
April 18, 2012

EXHIBIT 3.1
 
  .  The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware or at such other place within the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the Board of Directors) may at any time and from time to time designate.
Section 1.
Registered Office
  .  The Corporation may also have offices at such other places both within and without the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may at any time and from time to time determine.
Section 2.
Other Offices
  .  Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
Section 1.
Place of Meetings
.
Section 2.
Annual Meetings
The annual meetings of stockholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors and stated in the notice of the meeting, at which meetings the stockholders shall elect directors and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.  Except as otherwise required by law, written notice of the annual meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting at such address as shall appear on the books of the Corporation.
 
  .  Unless otherwise prescribed by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by (i) the Chairman, (ii) the President, or (iii) a majority of the entire Board of Directors.  Special meetings of stockholders may not be called by any other person or persons.  Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting, and the business transacted at a special meeting of stockholders shall be confined to the purpose or purposes specified in the notice therefor.  Written notice of a special meeting stating the place, date and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting at such address as shall appear on the books of the Corporation.
Section 3.
Special Meetings
 
1
 
  .  Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business.  If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented.  At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed. If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote at the meeting.
Section 4.
Quorum
.  Except as provided below with respect to election of directors, or as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any question brought before any meeting of stockholders shall be decided by the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock represented and entitled to vote thereat. Except as otherwise provided pursuant to the Certificate of Incorporation as to any series or class of Preferred Stock, each stockholder represented at a meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to cast one vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder.  Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy, but no proxy shall be voted on or after three years from its date unless such proxy provides for a longer period. The Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of stockholders, in his discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot; , , notwithstanding the foregoing, elections of directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders shall be written ballot.
Section 5.
Voting
provided
that
Director nominees, to include incumbent directors standing for re-election, shall be elected by an affirmative vote of the majority of votes cast in an election of directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders; , , in the event the number of director nominees exceeds the number of vacancies on the Board of Directors being filled by such election, directors shall be elected by the affirmative vote of a plurality of votes cast at such meeting of stockholders.
provided
however
  .  Except as otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken only upon the vote of the stockholders at an annual or special meeting duly noticed and called as provided in these Bylaws, and may not be taken by written consent of stockholders pursuant to the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
Section 6.
No Written Consent
  .  The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder of the Corporation who is present.
Section 7.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 
2
 
.  The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 7 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders.
Section 8.  Stock Ledger
.  No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 9 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 9.
Section 9.  Advance Notice for Business at Annual Meeting
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; , that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed to stockholders or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided,
however
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth as to each matter such stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (i) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and record address of such stockholder, (iii) a description of the full economic interest of such stockholder in the Corporation which would include, but is not limited to, the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder, and whether such interest is subject to or the result of any short position, synthetic swap, or forward shares, (iv)  an undertaking to provide an update on the information regarding economic interest required by the preceding part as of 10 days prior to the meeting and no later than 7 days prior to the meeting, (v) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and any other person or persons (including their names)  in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of such stockholder in such business, and (vi) an acknowledgment that such stockholder must appear in person at the annual meeting in order to bring such business before the meeting.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 9; , that, once business has been properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with such procedures, nothing in this Section 9 shall be deemed to preclude discussion by any stockholder of any such business.  If the Chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
provided,
however
 
3
 
. The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than five nor more than fifteen members, the exact number of directors to be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III.  Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors.  The term of the initial Class I directors shall terminate on the date of the 1996 annual meeting of stockholders; the term of the initial Class II directors shall terminate on the date of the 1997 annual meeting of stockholders; and the term of the initial Class III directors shall terminate on the date of the 1998 annual meeting of the stockholders.  At each annual meeting of stockholders beginning in 1996, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term.  If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional directors of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.  A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his term expires and until his successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, or removal from office by the Board of Directors for incapacity, failure to perform his or her duties, acts that could be a detriment to the Company, or for any other justifiable cause, in each case as so determined by the Board of Directors.  Any vacancy on the Board of Directors, however resulting, may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.  Any director elected to fill a vacancy shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the term of the class to which such director shall have been elected.  Any director may resign at any time upon notice to the Corporation.  Directors need not be stockholders.
Section 1.  Number and Election of Directors
.  Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation with respect to the right of holders of Preferred Stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 2 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (ii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.
Section 2.  Advance Notice of Director Nominations
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the anniversary date of the immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders; ,  that in the event that the annual meeting is called for a date that is not within thirty (30) days before or after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder in order to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed to stockholders or public disclosure of the date of the annual meeting was made, whichever first occurs.
provided,
however
 
4
 
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth  (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class or series and number of  shares  of  capital  stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by the person and (iv) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of such stockholder, (ii) a description of the full economic interest of such stockholder in the Corporation which would include, but is not limited to, the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially or of record by such stockholder, and whether such interest is subject to or the result of any short position, synthetic swap, or forward shares, (iii)  an undertaking to provide an update on the information regarding economic interest required by the preceding part as of 10 days prior to the meeting and no later than 7 days prior to the meeting, (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between such stockholder and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made by such stockholder, (v)  an acknowledgement that such stockholder must appear in  person at the annual meeting in order to to nominate the persons named in its notice and (v) any other information relating to such stockholder that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.  Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.  If the Chairman of the annual meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
  .  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Section 3.
Duties and Powers
.  The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, the President, or any director.  Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the date of the meeting,  by telephone, facsimile transmission or telegram on twenty-four  (24) hours' notice, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances.
Section 4.
Meetings
  .  Except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors.  If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Section 5.
Quorum
 
5
 
   Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Section 6.
Actions of Board
.  Unless otherwise provided by the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board of Directors, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means  of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 7 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 7.  Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
  .  The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the entire Board of Directors, designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation.  Any committee, to the extent allowed by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation.  Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Section 8.
Committees
  .  The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director.  No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
Section 9.
Compensation
  .  No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose if (i) the material facts as to his or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of  a majority of  the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to his or their relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders.  Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Section 10.
Interested Directors
.   .  The Chairman of the Board of Directors may appoint one or more individuals to serve as Director Emeritus or as advisory directors to the Corporation for a term of one year or less, provided that there shall be no more than one person serving as Director Emeritus at any one time.  Any Director Emeritus or Advisory Director may be reappointed annually.  A Director Emeritus or Advisory Director appointed by the Chairman shall be paid the consideration paid to Directors unless otherwise agreed to between the Chairman and any such Director Emeritus or Advisory Director.  The Director Emeritus and Advisory Directors shall be invited to attend meetings of the Board of Directors, but shall not serve on any committee nor shall have the ability to vote on any action taken by the Board of Directors.  The Director Emeritus and Advisory Directors shall attend for purposes of advising and counseling the members of the Board of Directors on matters that come before the Board of Directors.
Section 11
Director Emeritus and Advisory Directors
 
6
 
  .  The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary and a Treasurer.  The Board of Directors, in its discretion, may also choose one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and other officers.  Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation.
Section 1.
General
  .  The Board of Directors at its first meeting held after each Annual Meeting of Stockholders shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and all officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualified, or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any officer elected by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors.  Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by a majority of the entire Board of Directors.  The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Section 2.
Election
.  Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the President or any Vice President,  the Treasurer or the Secretary and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present.  The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Section 3.  Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and shall be chairman of all meetings of stockholders, and shall do and perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him by these Bylaws or by the Board of Directors.  During the absence or disability of the President, the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall exercise all the powers and discharge all the duties of the President.
Section 4.  Chairman of the Board of Directors
  .  The Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, subject to the approval or direction or authorization of the Board of Directors, shall have general executive charge of the business and property of the Corporation, sign and execute, or delegate to the President or any Vice President the signing and execution of, all authorized contracts, certificates and other instruments of the Corporation, and do and perform such additional duties as shall be ordered by the Board of Directors.  Either the Chairman of the Board or the President of the Corporation shall be chosen Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors.
Section 5.
Chief Executive Officer
  .  The President shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect.  In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the President shall perform the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and, when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions of the Chairman of the Board of Directors.  The President shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him by these Bylaws or by the Board of Directors.
Section 6.
President
 
7
 
  .  At the request of the President or, subject to Section 4 of this Article IV, in the President's absence or inability or refusal to act, the Vice President or the Vice Presidents if there is more than one (in the order designated by the Board of Directors) shall perform the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President.  Each Vice President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe, including, in the absence of the President or in the event of the inability or refusal of the President to act, the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the President.
Section 7.
Vice Presidents
  .  The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for the standing committees when required.  The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or President, under whose supervision he or she shall be.  If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the President may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given.  The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary,  if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary.   The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest the affixing by his signature.  The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.
Section 8.
Secretary
  .  The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors.  The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the President and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all such officer's transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation.  If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his or her death, resignation, retirement or  removal from office of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation.
Section 9.
Treasurer
  .  Except as may be otherwise provided in these Bylaws, Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of his or her disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary,  and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
Section 10.
Assistant Secretaries
 
8
 
   .   Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors,  the President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer, or in the event of his or her disability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting,  shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer.   If required by the Board of Directors, an Assistant Treasurer shall give the Corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board of Directors for the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office and for the restoration to the Corporation, in case of his or her death, resignation, retirement or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money and other property of whatever kind in his or her possession or under his or her control belonging to the Corporation.
Section 11.
Assistant Treasurers
    Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power  to choose  such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Section 12.
Other Officers
.   .  The shares of the Corporations capital stock may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under the laws of the State of Delaware.  Except as otherwise provided by law, the rights and obligations of shareholders are identical whether or not their shares are represented by certificates.  Each shareholder, upon written request to the Corporation or its transfer agent, shall be entitled to a certificate of the capital stock of the Corporation.  If certificated, certificates representing shares of the Corporation shall be in such form as shall be determined by the Board of Directors.  Such certificates shall be signed (i) by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, or a Vice President and (ii) by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary.  All certificates for shares shall be consecutively numbered or otherwise identified.  The name and address of the person to whom the shares represented thereby are issued, with the number of shares and date of issue, shall be entered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation.  All certificates surrendered to the Corporation for transfer shall be cancelled and no new certificate shall be issued until the former certificate for a like number of shares shall have been surrendered and cancelled, except that in the case of a lost, destroyed or mutilated certificate, a new one may be issued therefor upon such terms and indemnity to the Corporation as the Board of Directors may prescribe.
Section 1
Certificates for Shares
  .  Where a certificate is countersigned by  (i)  a transfer agent other than the Corporation or its employee or (ii) a registrar other than the Corporation or its employee, any other signature on a certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who  has  signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued,  it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 2.
Signatures
  .  The Board of Directors may direct a new certificate to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the Corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed.  When authorizing such issue of a new certificate, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or his legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as the Board of Directors shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against  the Corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
Section 3.
Lost Certificates
 
9
 
.  .  The Board of Directors may appoint one or more transfer agents for the Corporations capital stock and may make, or authorize such agent or agents to make, all such rules and regulations as are expedient governing the issue, transfer and registration of shares of capital stock of the Corporation and any certificates representing such shares.  Transfer of the shares of the Corporation shall be made only on the stock transfer books of the Corporation by the holder of record thereof or by his legal representative, who shall furnish proper evidence of his authority to transfer, or by his attorney thereunder authorized by power of attorney, duly executed and filed with Secretary of the Corporation or its transfer agent, either (i) if such shares are certificated, on surrender for cancellation of the certificate of such shares to the Corporation or its transfer agent, or (ii) if such shares are uncertificated, upon proper instructions from the holder thereof, in each case with such proof of authenticity of signature as the Corporation or its transfer agent may reasonably require.  Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of a security (whether certificate or uncertificated), the Corporation shall treat the registered owner of such security as the person exclusively entitled to vote, receive notifications and dividends, and otherwise to exercise all rights and powers of such security.
Section 4
Transfer of Shares
  .  In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix, in advance, a record date, which shall not be more than sixty days nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting,  nor more than sixty days prior to any other action. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Section 5.
Record Date
  .  The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by law.
Section 6.
Beneficial Owners
  .  Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, such notice may be given by mail, addressed to such director, member of a committee or stockholder, at his or her address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, with postage thereon prepaid, and such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time when the same shall be deposited in the United States mail.  Written notice may also be given personally or by telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or cable, in which event notice shall be deemed given upon receipt.
Section 1.
Notices
  .  Whenever any notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, to be given to any director, member of a committee or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed, by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto.
Section 2.
Waivers of Notice
 
10
 
  .  Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock.  Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Section  1.
Dividends
  .  All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Section 2.
Disbursements
  .  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.
Fiscal Year
  .  The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware."   The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Section 4.
Corporate Seal
  "" As used in these Bylaws, the term "Entire Board of Directors" shall mean the total number of directors fixed by the Board of Directors from time to time which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Section 5.
Entire Board of Directors.
The power, right and obligation of the Corporation to indemnify any director or officer of the Corporation and employees and agents of the Corporation shall be as set forth in Article TWELFTH of the Certificate of Incorporation.  All directors and officers of the Corporation shall be entitled to indemnification as set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation.
These Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that notice of such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption be contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or Board of Directors, as the case may be.  All such amendments must be approved by either the holders of two-thirds (2/3) of the outstanding voting stock of the Corporation thereon or by a majority of the entire Board of Directors then in office; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provisions of these Bylaws or any provision of law which might otherwise permit a lesser vote or no vote, but in addition to any vote of the holders of any particular class or series of stock required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, the favorable vote, at a meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding voting stock of the Corporation entitled to vote shall be required for any alteration, amendment or repeal of Article II, Sections 3 and 6; Article III, Section 1, Article VII, Section 5 and this Article IX.
(Adopted 5/13/2009
Amended 2/10/2010; 2/23/2011 and 4/17/2012)
 
11
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
EFiled: Apr 11 2012 6:10PM EDT
Transaction ID 43621425
Case No. 7415-
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1. Plaintiff, as a stockholder of
   
   
Cameron
International, Corporation,
a
Delaware corporation headquartered in Houston
,
Texas ("Cameron"
or the
"Company"),
brings
this action
to protect the
collective
right
of
all
stockholders
of the
Company
to a fully informed
vote on
a
proposed amendment
to
the Company's certificate
of incorporation
which provides
that any
action asserting
a
single
claim falling
within
fo
ur broad categories can
only
be litigated in the Delaware Court of Chancery and in no
other court
(the "Exclusive Forum Amendment" or the
"Amendment"). The
defendants are
the
Company
and
the members of its board of directors (the
"Board")
who are recommending the Amendment to the
Cameron
stockholders
.
The Amendment would
require stockholders
of
the
Company to
litigate exclusively in the Delaware
Court
of
Chancery,
while retaining the
ability of
the Board to choose a different
forum for claims subject
to the Amendment,
including
claims by
or against
the Board members. If enacted, the
 
 
1501858
 
1
 
Amendment would require that Plaintiff or any other stockholder to challenge the Amendment
only in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Indeed, Plaintiff or any other stockholder that sues in any forum other than the Delaware Court of Chancery could be sued by the Company for breach of the Amendment's exclusive forum provision and held liable for the Company's expenses in the other forum.
1
2.
 
  
 
T
he Amendment is to be voted on at Cameron's May 11, 2012 annual meeting of the stockholders ("Annual Meeting"). The March 28, 2012 Proxy Statement for Cameron's 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Proxy Statement") fails to provide all information material to the Cameron stockholders' vote on the Amendment. The Proxy Statement is materially misleading and incomplete in three different ways. First, the Proxy Statement fails to describe fully and accurately the purposes, scope and effects of the provisions of the Amendment. Second, the limited disclosure on pages 58 and 59 of the 74-page Proxy Statement concerning the Amendment is materially misleading and incomplete. Third, the Proxy Statement's disclosures concerning the proposals to amend Article Sixth of the Cameron certificate and adopt a Restated Certificate of Incorporation and indemnification agreements with the Directors, agreements with officers and stock plans make the disclosures concerning the Amendment materially misleading and incomplete partial disclosure. Accordingly, the Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction against the vote on and the filing of the Amendment, the amendment to Article Sixth and the Restated Certificate.
 3.
   
 
 
T
he Proxy Statement does not disclose fully and fairly the purposes, scope and effects of the Amendment's extremely broad provisions. The Exclusive Forum Amendment requires that if a single claim falls within anyone of four broad categories, any action raising that
 
________________________
Because the Amendment has not become effective (and based on defendants' defective disclosure cannot be validly approved by Cameron's stockholders), this action does not assert claims challenging the substantive defects of the provisions of the Amendment.
1
 
 
 
 
1501858
 
2
 
 
claim must be brought in its entirety in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The Amendment is not
limited to class or derivative claims but applies to individual claims by stockholders. Nor is the Amendment limited to claims brought against the Company and/or its directors. The Amendment enables the Company or its directors to bring certain claims against stockholders, officers and employees of the Company, and even former stockholders, officers or employees of the Company, in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Moreover, since the Company and its directors may claim the Amendment is a forum selection agreement binding on all stockholders, Plaintiff and other stockholders may be deemed under Delaware law to have consented to personal jurisdiction in the Delaware Court of Chancery. The Proxy Statement fails to describe, fully and accurately, the consequences of the Amendment and its impact on important rights of the
stockholders.
 4.
   
 
 
The Exclusive Forum Amendment mandates that claims within its scope must be brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery regardless of whether the Court has personal jurisdiction over the defendants or subject matter jurisdiction of the claims in the action. Indeed, the Amendment requires that actions at law arising under provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL") must be brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery, even though the Court lacks subject matter jurisdiction over such claims. The Amendment's overbroad provisions purport to subject Plaintiff and other stockholders of the Company to personal jurisdiction, counterclaims and ancillary claims and service of process in Delaware. However, the Proxy Statement omits any disclosure of the jurisdictional issues and other potential effects of the Amendment.
 5.
   
 
The Amendment also purports to bind stockholders who do not consent to its provisions, including stockholders who vote against it. Corporate law provisions authorizing
 
 
 
 
1501858
 
3
 
 
certificate amendments do not satisfy contract law requirements for a valid contractual agreement that establishes a binding, consensual and mutually exclusive forum obligation. Moreover, the Amendment is not mutual, but unilateral because the Company can choose a forum other than the Delaware Court of Chancery. However, the Proxy Statement does not explain how the Exclusive Forum Amendment can bind non-consenting stockholders or why the provision is not binding on the Company. The Proxy Statement also does not disclose the effect of the Exclusive Forum Amendment on federal and state constitutional and statutory claims and on federal jurisdiction and the jurisdiction of other state courts.
6.
 
 
The Board has breached its fiduciary duties of loyalty, care and disclosure by adopting and recommending the self-interested Amendment on an uninformed basis. The Amendment would empower the directors to control the forum for litigation against them and thereby reduce their risk of liability. The disclosure concerning the Board's adoption of the Amendment does not reflect any recognition of the effects of the Amendment by the Board. To the contrary, as discussed below, the minimal partial disclosure in the Proxy Statement is materially misleading and incomplete and demonstrates that the Cameron directors were uninformed and acted without due care when they approved the Amendment and recommended it to the stockholders.
7.
 
 
The Amendment, as adopted by the Board, and contained in Appendix B and Appendix C to the Proxy Statement, contains two glaring errors that alter and obscure its meaning. The first sentence of the Amendment in subpart (ii) refers to "any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owned (sic) by any director, officer or other employee of the Corporation." The last sentence of the Amendment states that anyone acquiring any interest in Cameron's stock "shall be deemed to have notice of the consent to the provisions of this
 
 
 
1501858
 
4
 
ARTICLE FIFTEENTH." In short, much of the amendment being proposed to the stockholders
borders on gibberish.
8.
 
 
The premise of the Exclusive Forum Amendment is that the Delaware Court of Chancery isbest equipped to determine issues of Delaware corporate law. However, the Amendment would force non-Delaware law issues to be litigated in the Delaware Court of Chancery. If one claim in an action is within the scope of the Amendment, the provision requires that every claim in the action must be litigated in the Delaware Court of Chancery, regardless of whether the other claims in the action are based on Delaware law, federal law or the law of another state. Indeed, the Amendment would require that claims relating to stock purchase agreements, subscription agreements, option agreements and agreements relating to convertible securities be litigated in the Delaware Court of Chancery even if the pertinent agreement provides it is governed by the law of some other state. The Proxy Statement does not disclose that the Amendment would require that non-Delaware and non-corporate law issues be litigated in the Delaware Court of Chancery.
 9.
   
 
  
The Proxy Statement's disclosure concerning the Amendment occupies the equivalent of one-full page of a 74-page Proxy Statement. This minimal disclosure is misleading and incomplete. The Proxy Statement represents there are exceptions to the Amendment based on exclusive federal jurisdiction and lack of personal jurisdiction when the Amendment contains no such exceptions. The Proxy Statement's analogy to multi-district federal litigation is materially misleading and incomplete. The references to the views of unidentified proxy advisors and institutional investors constitute misleading partial disclosure. The Proxy Statement misleadingly indicates the Amendment is limited to "stockholder suits" and provides no data or other support
 
 
1501858
 
5
 
 
for its attack on "the plaintiffs' bar," its assertions of harm to stockholders from multiple suits or
the claimed benefits to stockholders from exclusive forum provisions.
0 .The Proxy Statement wrongly claims there are multiple "Chancery Courts" in Delaware. claims "some plaintiffs" might view a non-Delaware forum as more convenient or favorable but does not discuss factors that may make the Delaware Court of Chancery more favorable to directors and officers. completely fails to describe the purposes and effects of the Corporate Control of Forum Clause.
1
  
It
It
11.  The Proxy Statement does not fully and fairly describe the interrelationship of the Exclusive Forum Amendment and the proposed amendment to Article Sixth of the certificate to declassify the Board. In particular, it does not disclose whether a purpose and hoped-for effect of the Article Sixth amendment is to avoid an unfavorable recommendation by Institutional Shareholder Services on the Exclusive Forum Amendment. The Proxy Statement also fails to disclose that the directors' indemnification agreements and officers' change-in-control agreements are governed by Delaware law but designate Harris County, Texas as the exclusive forum for litigation and arbitration. Similarly, the Company's various compensation plans do not provide for an exclusive forum in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Finally, the proposal for a Restated Certificate is tainted by its inclusion of the defective Amendment and the misleading disclosure concerning the Amendment and the amendment to Article Sixth.
 
12.  For these reasons, and as set forth more fully herein, Plaintiff seeks an order enjoining defendants from holding the stockholder vote on the Amendment, the amendment to Article Sixth and the Restated Certificate and from filing the Amendment, amendment to Article Sixth and Restated Certificate with the Delaware Secretary of State.
 
 
 
 
1501858
 
6
 
 13.Plaintiff Kenneth Everhard ("Plaintiff') is a stockholder of Cameron and has been a stockholder of the Company at all times relevant hereto.
   
 
 
 14.Defendant Cameron is a corporation incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. Cameron maintains its principal place of business at 1333 West Loop South, Suite 1700, Houston, Texas 77027.
   
  
 15.The individual defendants, C. Baker Cunningham, Sheldon R. Erikson, Peter J. Fluor, Douglas Foshee, Rodolfo Landim, Jack B. Moore, Michael E. Patrick, Jon Erik Reinhardsen, David Ross and Bruce W. Wilkinson (collectively, the "Directors"), are the directors of Cameron who approved the Amendment and determined to submit it to the stockholders.
   
  
L.
III
 16brings this action individually and as a class action, pursuant to Court of Chancery Rule 23, on behalf of all common stockholders of Cameron (the "Class") as of March 16, 2012, the record date for the Annual Meeting. Excluded from the Class are defendants herein, and any person, firm, trust, corporation or other entity related to or affiliated with any of the defendants.
   
.Plaintiff
  
 17. This action is properly maintainable as a class action.
   
  
 18. The Class is so numerous that joinder of all members is impracticable. As of the March 16, 2012 record date for the Annual Meeting, there were nearly 250 million shares of Cameron common stock outstanding.
   
  
 19. There are questions of law and fact which are common to the Class including, the following:
   
  
inter
alia,
 
 
 
 
1501858
 
7
 
(a) whether the Proxy Statement fully and accurately discloses all information material to the vote of the Cameron stockholders on the Amendment;
 
(b) whether the Directors have breached their fiduciary duties to Plaintiff and the other members of the Class; and
 
(c) whether Plaintiff and the Class are entitled to declaratory relief, injunctive relief or other relief.
 
 20.
   
 
 
Plaintiff iscommitted to prosecuting this action and has retained competent counsel experienced in litigation of this nature. Plaintiffs claims are typical of claims of the other members of the Class and Plaintiff has the same interests as the other members of the Class. Accordingly, Plaintiff is an adequate representative of the Class and will fairly and adequately protect the interests of the Class.
 21. The prosecution of separate actions by individual members of the Class would create the risk of inconsistent or varying adjudications with respect to individual members of the Class that would establish incompatible standards of conduct for defendants, or adjudications with respect to individual members of the Class that would as a practical matter be dispositive of the interests of the other members not party to the adjudications or substantially impair or impede their ability to protect their interests.
   
  
 22.  Defendants have acted, or refused to act, on grounds generally applicable to and causing injury to the Class, and therefore injunctive relief and/or corresponding declaratory relief on behalf of the Class as a whole is appropriate.
   
  
 
 23. Appendix B to the Proxy Statement sets forth the text of the proposed Amendment:
   
  
 
1501858
 
8
 
Cameron International Corporation, a Delaware corporation, does hereby certify as follows:
 
That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of Cameron International Corporation resolutions were duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of said corporation, declaring said amendment to be advisable and calling a meeting of the stockholders of said corporation for consideration thereof. The resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows:
FIRST:
 
RESOLVED: That the board of Directors hereby in all respects approves and declares the advisability of amending the Certificate to add Article FIFTEENTH of the Certificate to be and read in its entirety as follows:
 
Unless the Corporation consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware shall be the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Corporation, (ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owned (sic) by any director, officer or other employee of the Corporation to the Corporation or the Corporation's stockholders, (iii) any action asserting a claim against the Corporation arising pursuant to any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or the Corporation's Certificate of Incorporation or bylaws, or (iv) any action asserting a claim against the Corporation governed by the internal affairs doctrine. Any person or entity acquiring any interest in shares of capital stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have notice of the consent to (sic) the provisions of this ARTICLE FIFTEENTH.
FIFTEENTH:
   
 24. This same text of the proposed Amendment is repeated in Appendix C to the Proxy
   
  
Statement, the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Cameron which the stockholders are asked
to approve as Proposal 6 at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 25. The Amendment provides that the Delaware Court of Chancery "shall" be "the
   
  
sole and exclusive forum" for any action asserting a claim that falls within anyone of four broad
categories of litigation:
 
 
1501858
 
9
 
:
Derivative Action or Proceeding
 
"(i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Corporation"
(the "Derivative Provision").
 
:
Breach of Fiduciary Duty Actions
 
"(ii) any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty owned (sic) by any
director, officer or other employee of the Corporation to the Corporation
 or the Corporation's stockholders" (the "Fiduciary Duty Provision").
 
:
DGCL Actions
 
"(iii) any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the
Delaware General Corporation Law or the Corporation's Certificate of
Incorporation or bylaws" (the "DGCL Provision").
 
:
Internal Affairs Actions
 
"(iv) any action asserting a claim against the Corporation governed by the
internal affairs doctrine" (the "Internal Affairs Provision").
 
26.
 
 
The expansive scope of the Amendment begins with broad language that the Delaware Court of Chancery "shall" be the "sole" and the "exclusive" forum. This mandatory and exclusive language is all-encompassing and excludes all other courts before which the parties could or, in certain instances must, otherwise bring any action to which the Amendment applies. If the Delaware Court of Chancery does not have subject matter jurisdiction over the claim and the Amendment precludes litigation of the claim in any other forum, then the practical effect of the Amendment will be to eliminate the right to redress altogether.
27.The Amendment would require that "any action" which raises "a claim" (i.e., one claim) that is within one of the Amendment's specified categories must be brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Thus, an action asserting several claims, even if only one claim falls within anyone of these subparts, must be brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery, regardless of whether the other claims fall within the ambit of the Amendment and regardless of whether the Delaware Court of Chancery has subject matter jurisdiction over the claims asserted. The Proxy Statement fails to explain that a single claim within the Amendment's scope will trigger a requirement that the entire action, including non-Delaware law claims and non-corporate claims, must be brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery.
  
 
The Proxy Statement Fails to Explain the Effects of the Amendment's Application to "Any Action" Asserting a Claim
 
 
1501858
 
10
 
 
The Proxy Statement Fails to Disclose That the Amendment Contains Provisions With No Limitation on Plaintiff or Defendants
   
 28. Certain categories of actions identified in the Amendment contain no limitations on the identity of the plaintiff bringing the action or the defendants against whom it is brought. Indeed, the Amendment purports to require even stockholders to bring litigation in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Further, while the DOCL Provision and Internal Affairs Provision are limited to claims "against the Corporation," the other provisions of the Amendment are not limited to actions brought by a stockholder against the Company and/or its directors and officers; rather, it applies equally to actions brought by the Company stockholders, directors, officers or employees. For example, the Company can bring an action against directors, officers and/or employees asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty to the Company. The Proxy Statement does not disclose that the Company could use the provisions of the Amendment as a basis for filing suit in the Delaware Court of Chancery against stockholders and others acquiring an interest in the Company's stock.
   
 
 
former
against
 
The Proxy Statement Fails to Explain the Scope ofthe Derivative Provision
 
 
1501858
 
11
 
 29.
   
 
 
The Amendment includes "any derivative action or proceeding," but the Proxy Statement does not disclose (i) whether an action raising a single derivative claim along with other claims is a "derivative action," (ii) what a "derivative ... proceeding" is or (iii) whether "brought on behalf of the Corporation" includes actions where the Company itself is the plaintiff.
   
 30. The Amendment is not limited to derivative or class actions but purports to encompass individual actions by individual stockholders asserting individual claims. Moreover, it is not limited to derivative claims that are based on Delaware corporation law, but extends to federal claims or claims under the laws of other states that are brought derivatively. In fact, even derivative claims that may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of other courts appear to fall within the Amendment's mandate. However, the Proxy Statement's partial disclosure does not give a full and fair description of the scope and effects of the Derivative Provision.
   
  
 
The Proxy Statement Fails to Disclose the Scope and Effects ofthe Fiduciary Duty Provision
31.The Fiduciary Duty Provision covers any action asserting a single claim of breach of fiduciary duty "owned (sic) by any director, officer or other employee of the Corporation" to the Company or its stockholders. Thus, the Amendment, as proposed, would require directors, officers and employees to bring any action asserting a fiduciary duty claim they owned in the Delaware Court of Chancery. However, even correction of this obvious error cannot fix the infirmities of the provision. The Fiduciary Duty Provision contains no exclusion for defendants over whom the Delaware Court of Chancery would not have personal jurisdiction. Thus, for example, the Amendment purports to require stockholders and the Company to bring litigation in the Delaware Court of Chancery against officers and employees of the Company who are not subject to 10 C.  3114, reside outside of Delaware, and did not perform any act in Delaware. The Proxy Statement's partial disclosure does not fully and fairly disclose that the Fiduciary Duty
 
 
Del.
 
 
1501858
 
12
 
Provision may require that stockholders bring claims in the Delaware Court of Chancery against
individuals who are not subject to personal jurisdiction in Delaware. Thus, the Proxy Statement does not disclose that the Amendment may prevent stockholders from pursuing claims against officers and employees in any forum.
 
The Proxy Statement Fails to Disclose the Scope and Effects of the DGCL Provision
 32.
   
  
The DOCL Provision covers any action where a single claim arises "pursuant to" any DOCL section or the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws. This would include not only suits that are specifically authorized by sections of the DOCL, but also any case that includes a claim involving the interpretation, application or enforcement of any of the more than 100 sections of the DOCL.
 33.
   
  
Pursuant to 8 C.  lll(b), "[a]ny civil action to interpret, apply or enforce any provision of this title may be brought in the Court of Chancery." Under 8 C.  II 1 (a), the Delaware Court of Chancery may hear any action "to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of the provisions of' the certificate or bylaws, transfer restrictions, proxies, voting trusts or voting agreements, merger agreements or certificates of merger and certificates of conversion, domestication, transfer or continuance.
Del.
Del.
 
 
This provision encompasses disputes relating to stock subscription agreements, stock purchase agreements, offering memoranda, prospectuses, option plans, option agreements, warrants, warrant agreements, rights plans, rights agreements, convertible debentures and related indentures and any other document related to the offer or sale of stock, options or rights. These
 
 
1501858
 
13
 
various agreements and instruments may or may not be governed by Delaware law. Indeed,
many such agreements and instruments may contain a choice-of-law provision designating the law of another state, but not contain any forum selection provision. Under the Amendment, claims arising under such agreements and instruments must be brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery even though the law of another state applies.
   
 35. Section 11 1 (a)(9) expands the scope of the statute even further to include any other instrument, document, agreement or certificate required by any provision of the DGCL. Significantly, the scope of  III (and consequently the scope of the Amendment) is not limited to actions brought by stockholders, but includes suits brought by the corporation or even an indenture trustee for noteholders. The Proxy Statement provides no summary of the numerous claims that may arise pursuant to the DGCL, including  1 1 1.
   
  
 
The Proxy Statement Fails to Provide Full Disclosure Concerning the Internal Affairs Provision
 36.The Internal Affairs Provision requires that actions "asserting a claim against the Corporation governed by the internal affairs doctrine," must be brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery even when that claim is one of many claims in the action. The Internal Affairs Provision requires such an action to be brought in the Delaware Court of Chancery even if the Court does not have subject matter jurisdiction over the additional claims. The Proxy Statement (and the Amendment itself) fails to define or explain what the "internal affairs doctrine" is. The internal affairs doctrine provides only that a corporation's internal affairs should be governed by the law of the jurisdiction of incorporation. does not provide that only the Delaware Court of Chancery is capable of adjudicating such matters.
   
  
It
 
 37.The Amendment begins by empowering the Company to designate unilaterally a
   
  
 
 
1501858
 
14
 
forum other than the Delaware Court of Chancery (the "Corporate Control of Forum Clause"):
 
 Unless the Corporation consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum ...
   
   
 
 38.
   
  
Although the terms of the Amendment are mandatory, the introductory clause of the Amendment effectively authorizes the Company to choose the forum for all litigation falling within the Amendment. Thus, the Company the Board) can select a forum other than the Delaware Court of Chancery for bringing any action within the Amendment.
(i.e.,
 39.
   
 
 
If one stockholder brings an action in the Delaware Court of Chancery and another files an action in another forum, the Company can choose whichever forum the Directors believe presents the least chance of liability or the best prospect for a cheap settlement. Moreover, because the Amendment allows the Company to choose the forum, it can force the stockholder who filed in Delaware to litigate in a different forum. Thus, far from ensuring that Delaware corporate law issues are litigated in the Delaware Court of Chancery, the Amendment may allow the Company to compel stockholders and others to litigate outside Delaware. The Proxy Statement does not disclose this effect of the Corporate Control of Forum Clause.
 40.
   
 
 
Because the Amendment mandates that all actions with a claim falling within its scope must be filed in the Delaware Court of Chancery unless the Company consents to "the selection" of an alternative forum, stockholders, officers, employees and others wishing to file any such action apparently must obtain the Company's consent to any forum other than the Delaware Court of Chancery before selecting a forum. The Proxy Statement does not disclose whether or in what form or manner the Amendment requires a pre-suit request for the Company's consent before filing in any forum other than the Delaware Court of Chancery.
 
1501858
 
15
 
41. The Amendment does not require that parties other than the Company must also
 
  
  
consent to an alternative forum. The Proxy Statement does not disclose whether the Amendment will permit the Company to require a stockholder plaintiff and other defendants to litigate in whichever alternative forum the Company chooses.
42.
   
 
In short, the Amendment allows the Company the Board) to choose the forum not only for litigation the Company brings as plaintiff against stockholders, directors, officers or employees, but also allows the Company and its directors as defendants to choose the forum for suits brought by any stockholder, director, officer or employee against them. The Amendment is not a mutual "forum selection" provision but a one-sided "heads I win, tails you lose" provision enabling the Company to deprive a stockholder of his choice of forum. Moreover, the Corporate Control of Forum Clause is inconsistent with the purported rationale of the Amendment: that the Delaware Court of Chancery is best qualified to determine Delaware corporate law issues. Indeed, this clause appears to concede that the Delaware Court of Chancery may not be the appropriate forum for cases that are within the scope of the Amendment. The Proxy Statement, however, provides no explanation of the reasons for, the scope of, or the effects of the Corporate Control of Forum Clause.
 
(i.e.,
43.
   
 
 
The Proxy Statement contains no disclosure concerning forum selection and dispute resolution provisions under the Company's stock plans and agreements with directors, officers and employees, including whether the Company has consented or agreed to provisions specifying a different forum or different dispute resolution procedure than the Delaware Court of Chancery. Nor does the Proxy Statement state whether, absent express agreement by plan participants or other parties to the contract, the Amendment can impose its forum selection provisions on existing stock plans and agreements which contain no forum provisions. A
 
1501858
 
16
 
reasonable stockholder would consider it important in deciding how to vote on the Amendment whether the Company has agreed to a different forum or a different dispute resolution procedure than the Amendment and whether other corporate constituencies, such as directors, officers and stock plan participants, will be subject to the Amendment.
 
 44.The text of the Amendment, which is found in both Appendix B and Appendix C of the Proxy Statement, concludes with a deemed consent provision (the "Consent Provision") which reads:
   
  
 
Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of capital stock of the
Corporation shall be deemed to have notice of the consent to the provisions of this ARTICLE FIFTEENTH.
 
The phrase "deemed to have notice of the consent to the provisions" of the Amendment makes no sense. Moreover, the Proxy Statement does not even mention the Consent Provision, much less explain what "the consent" is of which persons and entities are deemed to have notice. Accordingly, the Proxy Statement is misleading and incomplete.
45. The Consent Provision attempts to bind not just stockholders and purchasers of the Company's stock, but also anyone who acquires "any interest" in any of the Company's shares by any means. Therefore, the Amendment would bind anyone who obtains the Company's shares through testamentary transfer, by a gift or through any other method of transfer. Acquirors of "any interest" in any of the Company's shares would include not only beneficial owners of the stock, but also record holders of the Company's stock such as depositaries, brokers and nominees and holders of options, rights, warrants and convertible debentures. Market participants in sophisticated financial transactions, such as equity swaps and certain other derivatives, would have an "interest" and find themselves, unwarily, to be deemed to have consented to the Delaware
   
  
 
 
1501858
 
17
 
Court of Chancery as the exclusive forum for disputes. Lenders who have stock as collateral and others with a security interest in stock would also have an "interest" in shares of the Company's stock and might be deemed by the defendants to have consented to the Delaware Court of Chancery as the exclusive forum for any covered action. Furthermore, if the Company adopts a poison pill rights plan, the unilateral issuance to all stockholders of rights to acquire stock would enable the Directors to fabricate "consent" to the Amendment by all stockholders.
 
The Scope of the Amendment Exceeds Its Purported Rationale
 46.
   
  
The purported justification for the Amendment designating the Delaware Court of Chancery as the exclusive forum for suits involving Cameron is that the Court is best qualified to determine issues of Delaware corporate law. However, the Proxy Statement does not explain that the expansive scope of the Amendment is not limited to the determination of Delaware corporate law issues. Rather, it extends to contract issues, including issues arising under the laws of other states, federal claims and any claim that must or could be brought in an action asserting a claim that is within any of the broad categories delineated in the Amendment.
 47.
   
 
The Proxy Statement also asserts that the Amendment will eliminate duplicative litigation in multiple forums. However, the Proxy Statement does not disclose whether the Company has been the subject of duplicative suits in the various broad areas encompassed by the Amendment. Indeed, multiple stockholder suits generally arise only where a Delaware corporation is being acquired-an event that tends to be a final-stage, one-time phenomenon.
 
 48.
   
  
The overly broad coverage and lack of specific justification for the need for the Amendment supports the inference that the Directors approved the Amendment to minimize their own prospects for potential liability. The Proxy Statement makes no reference to minimizing director liability as a potential purpose or effect of the Amendment.
 
1501858
 
18
 
 49. he Proxy Statement's disclosure concerning the Amendment consists of five (5) paragraphs on pages 58-59. The first paragraph simply repeats almost verbatim the terms of the Amendment. However, the final portion of this disclosure represents there are exceptions to the scope
   
 
T
of the Amendment:
 ... except for any such action in which the Court of Chancery in the State of Delaware concludes that an indispensible party is not subject to the jurisdiction of the
   
   
   
       Delaware courts or any such action in which a federal court has assumed exclusive jurisdiction of a proceeding.
 
However, the Amendment contains Therefore, the disclosure in the Proxy Statement concerning exceptions is false.
no such exceptions.
50. The second paragraph of disclosure discusses Cameron's experience as a party to over 350 lawsuits arising out of the Deepwater Horizon incident and describes the nature and purposes of multi-district litigation in the federal courts. The Proxy Statement does not disclose how many, if any, of these suits were brought by Cameron stockholders. The Proxy Statement then says:
  
  
 
 The Board is of the opinion that an exclusive forum provision for stockholder suits serves the same purposes.
   
   
 
The Proxy Statement offers no explanation of the differences between federal MDL practice and a certificate provision requiring that a broad range of disputes can be litigated only in a single court in one state. For example, the MDL does not prohibit lawsuits or trials in multiple forums. Moreover, the scope of the Amendment is not limited to "stockholder suits." The Proxy Statement's partial disclosure analogizing to MDL procedures and claiming the Amendment will serve the same purposes is materially misleading and incomplete.
51. The third paragraph of disclosure states:
  
  
 
 
1501858
 
19
 
The Board is aware that certain proxy advisors, and even some institutional holders, take the view that they will not support an exclusive forum clause until the company requesting it can show it already has suffered material harm as a result of multiple stockholder suits filed in different jurisdictions regarding the same matter. The Board believes that it is more prudent to take preventative measures the Company and almost all of its stockholders are harmed by the increasing practice of the plaintiffs' bar to rush to file their own claims in their favorite jurisdictions, not
before
after.
 
The Proxy Statement fails to identify the "certain" proxy advisors and the "some institutional holders" to whom refers. The partial disclosure is also materially misleading because it fails to describe fully and fairly the positions of proxy advisory firms, the Council of Institutional Investors, and whatever other institutional holders are referred to in the Proxy Statement. For example, Glass Lewis has stated that forum selection provisions "are not in the best interests of shareholders." believes such provisions may discourage derivative suits and that shareholders should be wary of such a provision "without compelling evidence that it will benefit shareholders." Glass Lewis recommends that "shareholders vote against any bylaw or charter amendment seeking to adopt an exclusive forum provision". Having made partial disclosure representing the views of proxy advisors and institutional holders, defendants were required to provide a full and fair summary of those views. The disclosure is also misleading because defendants, again, imply that the scope of the Amendment is limited to "stockholder suits." The Proxy Statement fails to provide any basis for the assertion that, if multiple suits were filed, "almost all of [Cameron's] stockholders" would be harmed. Nor does the Proxy Statement provide any support for the claim that there is "the increasing practice of the plaintiffs' bar to rush to file their own claims in their favorite jurisdictions." In particular, the Proxy Statement
it
It
2
 
_______________________
Similarly, Section 1.9 of the Council of Institutional Investors Corporate Governance Policies provides: "U.S. companies should not attempt to restrict the venue for shareowner claims by adopting charter or bylaw provisions that seek to establish an exclusive forum."
2
 
 
1501858
 
20
 
does not provide any data to support this claim or any description of what types of claims are
purportedly being filed in multiple forums.
 52. The fourth paragraph of disclosure asserts that stockholders will benefit "from having intra-company disputes litigated in the Delaware Chancery Courts (sic)." The disclosure also refers to "specialized Chancery Courts" and "these Courts," repeatedly and erroneously indicating that there are multiple Chancery Courts in Delaware. The Proxy Statement's assertion that "some plaintiffs might prefer to litigate matters in a forum outside of Delaware because another court may be more convenient or viewed as being more favorable to them" is materially misleading without the further disclosure that directors and management might prefer to litigate in the Delaware Court of Chancery because they believe that Court may be more favorable to them, including being less likely to impose liability. The Proxy Statement fails to disclose that directors and management may prefer the Delaware Court of Chancery because there are no jury trials and no punitive damages. The Proxy Statement's claim that the benefits of the Amendment to "its non-filing stockholders" outweigh other concerns is materially misleading. The Proxy Statement does not disclose that derivative litigation and other stockholder suits are frequently filed in a representative capacity on behalf of all stockholders. A reasonable stockholder, in considering the defendants' claim that requiring stockholder plaintiffs to file in Delaware will benefit nonfiling stockholders, would want to know that he might be a potential beneficiary of any recovery in the litigation, even though he is a non-filing stockholder. The disclosure that refers to the Delaware Courts' experience in corporate law issues is misleading because it does not also point out that the Amendment would apply to many actions where some or all of the claims do not raise Delaware corporate law issues. The Proxy Statement merely asserts that the Amendment "gives the Board the flexibility to consent to an alternative forum in the appropriate instances" without
   
  
 
 
1501858
 
21
 
any description of what may be "appropriate instances" or the purposes and effects of the Corporate Choice of Forum Clause.
 53.
   
  
The fourth paragraph of disclosure also asserts that "adoption of this amendment would reduce the risk that the Company could be involved in duplicative litigation in more than one forum, as well as the risk that the outcome of cases in multiple forums could be inconsistent, even though each forum purports to follow Delaware law." This disclosure is misleading because it suggests that the Company's only recourse to avoid the risk of inconsistent outcomes if cases are filed in multiple forums is to adopt the Amendment. This is not the case as our legal system has mechanisms in place to avoid such a risk. Under principles of comity, courts strive to avoid the risk of inconsistent outcomes when multiple suits are filed in different jurisdictions. The recourse litigants have when faced with such a risk is to request that litigation proceed in one jurisdiction while it is stayed in others. In appropriate circumstances, courts will grant a stay. The purported risk of inconsistent judgments resulting from litigation in multiple forum is miniscule and does not justify the extreme measure of adopting an Amendment with such broad sweeping implications.
 54.
   
  
The Proxy Statement states that the Amendment "gives the Board the flexibility to consent to an alternative forum in appropriate circumstances." This vague statement is a misleadingly incomplete statement of the purposes and effects of the Corporate Control of Forum Clause. The Proxy Statement provides no disclosure as to the meaning of "appropriate circumstances" or how the board may use "the flexibility" conferred by the Amendment.
55.
  
 
 
 
The fifth paragraph of disclosure merely describes the renumbering of articles of the corporation's certificate that will occur if the Amendment is approved. Significantly, the
 
 
 
1501858
 
22
 
Proxy Statement never indicates there isany question as to whether a single portion of the
Amendment may be invalid.
 56. On page 2, the Proxy Statement misstates that "the affirmative vote of 50% of the
   
  
outstanding shares of common stock" is required to approve the Amendment. Under 8
Del.
C.
 242, the required vote is a majority of all outstanding shares.
 
 57.Proposal Number 4, described on page 58 of the Proxy Statement, is to amend
   
  
Article Sixth of Cameron's certificate of incorporation to "provide for the declassification of the
Board" by having directors elected in 2013 and later years serve one-year terms. The Proxy
Statement describes the Board's reasons for proposing the amendment as follows:
 
In approving the amendment, the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board considered carefully the advantages of both classified and declassified boards. A classified board of directors provides continuity and stability in pursuing the Company's business strategies and policies, and reinforces the Company's commitment to a long-term perspective. Moreover, independent studies have concluded that a classified board increases the Board's negotiating leverage when dealing with a potential acquirer. The Board is aware that many investors believe these advantages are outweighed by the inability of stockholders to evaluate and elect all directors on an annual basis, and that annual election of directors is the trend in corporate governance generally, and within the Fortune 500 in particular. The Board has concluded that at this stage in the Company's development is appropriate to recommend this Proposal to our stockholders for their consideration.
it
   
 58.The Proxy Statement's disclosure fails to accurately and completely depict the purposes or effects of the amendment to Article Sixth and is materially misleading and incomplete. The disclosure on the proposed amendment to Article Sixth discusses the views of many investors and the trend in corporate governance in favor of annual election of directors. In
   
  
 
1501858
 
23
 
its discussion of the Amendment, the Proxy Statement on page 59 acknowledges the Board's
awareness of the views of proxy advisors on exclusive forum provisions. The policy of one proxy advisor, Institutional Shareholder Services ("ISS') in determining whether to recommend a vote for or against an exclusive forum provision is to examine various factors, including whether the company has an annually elected board. Thus, one purpose and effect of the amendment to Article Sixth is to influence ISS's position on the Amendment to add an exclusive forum provision.
 59.
   
 
 
The disclosure as to the Amendment and as to the amendment to Article Sixth is materially misleading and incomplete because the interrelationship between the two amendments is not disclosed. Having made partial disclosure concerning the Board's consideration of the views of investors and proxy advisors, defendants were required to provide a complete and accurate account of the policies of the proxy advisors that were relevant to, or considered in connection with, the proposed amendments, including how the amendment to Article Sixth could affect the position of ISS on the Amendment. The Proxy Statement discloses that certain proxy advisors determine whether to support an exclusive forum clause based on whether the company has suffered material harm from multiple stockholder suits in different jurisdictions. ISS considers this factor in considering exclusive forum provisions. However, ISS also considers "whether the company has ... an annually elected board." Delaware law requires a full and fair exposition of the rationales for and the effects of the amendment to Article Sixth the Directors are proposing, including candid disclosure of the Board's motivations. The generic partial disclosure of the purposes and effects of the amendment to Article Sixth is materially misleading.
 60.
   
  
Full disclosure of the purposes and effects of the proposed amendments is of actual significance to a reasonable stockholder. A reasonable stockholder reading the Proxy Statement
 
 
1501858
 
24
 
is given the misleading impression that the adoption of the amendment to Article Sixth was based
solely on the Board, on a clear day, considering "carefully the advantages of both classified and declassified boards" and concluding that "at this stage in the Company's development it is appropriate" to declassify the Board. A reasonable stockholder would consider it important in deciding how to vote on the Amendment and the amendment to Article Sixth that a purpose and effect of the proposals to amend Article Sixth is to dissuade ISS from recommending against the Amendment because Cameron has a classified board. Significantly, the amendment to Article Sixth requires approval by 80% of Cameron's outstanding voting stock -a difficult vote to achieve. Thus, defendants may use the pendency of that amendment as a way to obtain ISS's recommendation of the Amendment, which requires only approval of a majority of the outstanding shares. Thus, the amendment declassifying the Board may not be approved by the required 80% vote, while the Amendment may receive the required majority vote.
 61.The Proxy Statement also fails to disclose the interrelationship between the proposed amendment to Article Sixth and the provisions of Article Seventh of Cameron's certificate, which provides that the stockholders may only remove directors for cause. The proposals to the Cameron stockholders contain no revisions to Article Seventh to reflect declassification of the Board. Under 8 C.  141(k), stockholders may remove directors with or without cause by a majority vote except that shareholders may only remove directors on a classified board for cause, unless the certificate provides for removal without cause. The amendment to Article Sixth provides for declassification of the Board, but Article Seventh will continue to provide that the directors, including those elected to one-year terms, may only be removed for cause. The Proxy Statement does not discuss the interrelationship of Articles Sixth and Seventh. Moreover, applying the "for cause" requirement of Article Seventh to directors
   
  
Del.
 
 
1501858
 
25
 
elected pursuant to amended Article Sixth will violate 8 C.  141(k). Defendants should
Del.
have provided for corresponding changes to Article Seventh or, at least, disclosed the interaction of the amendment to Article Sixth, the continuing provisions of Article Seventh and the statutory provisions of  141 (k).
 
 62.
   
 
 
Each of the Directors has an indemnification agreement with Cameron governed by Delaware law that provides that the exclusive forum for litigation and arbitration relating to the agreements is in Harris County, Texas. Indemnification agreements between Cameron and certain officers provide for mandatory arbitration in Houston, London or Singapore, depending on the officer's location. Under C.  145(k), the Delaware Court of Chancery is vested with exclusive jurisdiction over actions for advancement or indemnification brought under any indemnification agreement of directors, officers and employees. Yet Defendants provide in such agreements for an alternative exclusive forum. Cameron also has change-of-control agreements with 12 of its officers, including its CEO, defendant Jack B. Moore, that are governed by Delaware law but provide that the exclusive forum for litigation and arbitration relating to those agreements is in Harris County, Texas. These agreements are described on page 46 of the Proxy Statement, but there is no disclosure of the governing law and forum provisions.
8
Del.
63.
 
  
 
 
Cameron has various compensation and stock plans that are governed in whole or in part by Delaware law, including the Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, the 2005 Equity Incentive Plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan. These plans are described at pages 25-26 and 40-44 of the Proxy Statement. The Proxy Statement fails to disclose that none of these plans provides for the Delaware Court of Chancery to be the exclusive forum for resolving disputes. Significantly, many of these plans cannot be amended in a manner that is adverse to
 
 
1501858
 
26
 
participants without their consent. Thus, the Amendment cannot impose exclusive forum restrictions on the directors, officers and employees who are participants in such plans. Under 8  111(a)(s), the Delaware Court of Chancery has jurisdiction over any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of the provisions of any instrument, document or agreement by which the corporation creates or sells or offers to create or sell any of its stock or any rights to or options on stock. Yet Cameron's stock plans do not provide for exclusive jurisdiction in the Delaware Court of Chancery, and the Amendment cannot impose such a requirement. The Proxy Statement fails to disclose what law governs and what forums are available to the Directors and others under the stock plans.
Del.
C.
 
 64. In Proposal 6, the stockholders are asked to approve a Restated Certificate of Amendment which would include the Amendment as Article Fifteenth and also the amendment to Article Sixth, if those provisions are approved by the stockholders. However, the Restated Certificate repeats the defective text of the Amendment. Moreover, any stockholder approval of the Restated Certificate will be invalid because of the materially misleading and incomplete disclosure concerning the Amendment and the amendment to Article Sixth. Therefore, the vote on and the filing of the Restated Certificate should be enjoined.
   
  
 
The Directors Have Breached Their Fiduciary Duty
 
 65.Plaintiff repeats and realleges the allegations above as if fully set forth herein.
   
  
 66. The power of the directors under 8  242 to adopt a resolution proposing certificate amendments is subject to their fiduciary duty to the stockholders. Where directors
   
 
 
Del.
C.
 
1501858
 
27
 
have a self-interest in certificate amendments or fail to adequately inform themselves before adopting the amendments, the entire fairness standard is applicable.
 67.
   
 
The Directors have a material interest in the Amendment because (i) would enable them to cause litigation against them to be confined to the forum where they believe they are least likely to be held liable, (ii) would enable them to avoid a jury trial, (iii) would prevent any claim for punitive damages and (iv) may make it difficult or impossible for certain claims to be brought against them.
 
it
 68.
   
 
The Directors breached their fiduciary duties by approving the Amendment and by recommending that Amendment to the stockholders through a misleading and incomplete Proxy Statement. The Amendment was initiated and timed by the Directors for their benefit and without any stockholder input. The structure of the Amendment is flawed for the numerous reasons discussed above. Indeed, the language of the Amendment as approved and proposed by the Directors contains serious errors. There was no negotiation or independent consideration of the Amendment. The Directors simply adopted an incorrectly copied provision. The public disclosure concerning the Amendment, including the Proxy Statement, reflects that there was no consideration by the Directors of the specific terms, effects and consequences of the Amendment. Nor does it describe what data or information the Directors considered before approving the Amendment. Consequently, they lacked material information, and their approval of the Amendment was uninformed.
 
 69.
   
 
Through the Amendment, the Directors seek to usurp the stockholders' fundamental right of access to a forum of their choosing and instead to compel them to file numerous types of actions in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Because of the Court of Chancery's limited subject matter and personal jurisdiction, the forum provision restriction will
 
 
1501858
 
28
 
effectively deprive stockholders of their right to pursue certain claims under federal and state law.
The Directors have a duty to disclose in a non-misleading manner all material facts bearing on the decision of the Company's stockholders whether to approve the Amendment. Delaware law requires a full and fair explanation of the purposes and effects of the certificate amendment the Directors are recommending to the Company's stockholders, including the Directors' motivations. The Proxy Statement's generic, partial disclosure is materially misleading. The Proxy Statement fails to disclose accurately and completely the risks ofthe Amendment. There is no disclosure of the possible invalidity of the Amendment. The Proxy Statement provides virtually no information as to the reasons for and effects of the Amendment.
 70.
   
 
The Amendment is not entirely fair to the stockholders, and therefore it is invalid and unenforceable. The Proxy Statement is materially misleading and incomplete. Accordingly, the stockholders vote at the Annual Meeting should be enjoined.
 
 71.
   
 
The Proxy Statement's disclosure concerning the amendment to Article Sixth, including the interrelationship to the Amendment and to Article Seventh, is materially misleading and incomplete. The Directors breached their fiduciary duty by failing to provide for the interaction of amended Article Sixth, Article Seventh and 8 C.  141(k).
 
Del.
 72.
   
 
The Directors have further breached their duty of disclosure because of the Proxy Statement's failure to disclose the governing law and forum provisions of the Directors' indemnification agreements, the officers' change-in-control agreements and the Company's compensation plans, including the applicability of the Amendment to disputes relating to those agreements and plans.
 
 
 
1501858
 
29
 
 
 73.
   
 
 
The proposal for a Restated Certificate, unfortunately, reflects the errors and infirmities of the Amendment and suffers from the disclosure deficiencies relating to the Amendment and the proposed amendment to Article Sixth.
 74.
   
 
Plaintiff has no adequate remedy at law.
WHEREFORE, Plaintiff demands judgment and preliminary and permanent relief, including injunctive relief, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1501858
 
30
 
KESSLER TOPAZ MELTZER
&CHECK, LLP
Marc Topaz
A.
Lee D. Rudy
Eric Zagar
L.
Michael C. Wagner
James H. Miller
280 King of Prussia Road
Radnor, P A 19087
  (610) 667-7706
 
Dated: April 11, 2012
 
 
PRlCKETT, JONES & ELLIOTT, P.A.
 
By
:
lsi Michael Hanrahan
Michael Hanrahan (#941)
 
Paul A. Fioravanti, Jr. (#3808)
Tanya E. Pino (#4298)
Kevin H. Davenport (#5327)
1310 N. King Street
1328
P. O. Box
Wilmington, Delaware 19899-1328
(302) 888-6500
Counsel for Plaintiff
 
 
 
 
1501858 31
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  


