FILE:CAM/CAM-8K-20120726082417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4 (c))
 
 
 
 
On July 26, 2012, Cameron International Corporation (Cameron) issued a press release announcing its results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2012.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this item.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits.
 
    The following is being furnished as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99.1 to this report contains non-GAAP financial measures as defined in Item 10 of Regulation S-K of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The non-GAAP financial measures reflect earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization expense (EBITDA) and adjusted EPS.  A reconciliation of EBITDA and adjusted EPS to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (GAAP) is included as an attachment to the press release.  The Company believes the presentation of EBITDA and adjusted EPS are useful to the Companys investors because (i) EBITDA is an appropriate measure of evaluating the Companys operating performance and liquidity that reflects the resources available for strategic opportunities including, among others, investing in the business, strengthening the balance sheet, repurchasing the Companys securities and making strategic acquisitions and (ii) adjusted EPS is useful in analyzing the companys on-going earnings potential and understanding certain significant items impacting the comparability of our results.  In addition, EBITDA and adjusted EPS are widely used benchmarks in the investment community.
 
The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the Companys financial results prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date:     
July 26, 2012
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
2012-08
                  Jeff Altamari
Contact:
Vice President, Investor Relations
(713) 513-3344
CAMERON SECOND QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE $0.74, EXCLUDING CHARGES OF $0.04 PER SHARE
HOUSTON (July 26, 2012) -- Cameron (NYSE: CAM) reported net income of $174.6 million, or $0.70 per diluted share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, compared with net income of $148.0 million, or $0.59 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2011.  The second quarter 2012 results include pre-tax charges of $9.9 million, or $0.04 per share, primarily related to pension settlement and integration costs.  The second quarter 2011 results included pre-tax charges of $20.1 million, or $0.07 per diluted share, related to litigation and restructuring costs.
Year-over-year revenues increase in every segment
Revenues were $2.05 billion for the quarter, up 18.0 percent from $1.74 billion a year ago, and income before income taxes was $223.1 million, up 19.0 percent from $187.4 million a year ago. Cameron Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Jack B. Moore said that the year-over-year revenue increases were due to gains in all three of the Companys segments, with the Drilling & Production Systems (DPS) and Valves & Measurement (V&M) segments seeing double digit revenue gains. In addition, EBITDA margins in each of our segments showed sequential quarterly improvements, Moore said.
 
 
 
Year-over-year orders increase nearly 8%, include large subsea order for Egypt. Quarterly records set for several businesses
Total orders were $2.57 billion for the quarter, up from $2.39 billion in the second quarter of 2011, for an increase of 7.8%.  Moore noted that this was Camerons second highest orders quarter ever.  Record bookings were established for the surface and V&M businesses.
Orders for the quarter included a $122 million award from Petrobel for subsea trees, MARS modules and HIPPS manifolds, making it Camerons second complete SPS system in Egypt. In the drilling systems business, orders for a total of five deepwater blowout preventer stacks as well as five jackup blowout preventer stacks were received during the quarter.
Camerons backlog at the end of the second quarter was $7.45 billion, up from the first quarter level of $6.77 billion and up from $5.52 billion a year ago.  Moore noted that this is a record backlog for the Company. This represents year-over-year backlog increases for all of our business segments, he said. It reflects 35% growth from a year ago. Moore stated, While overall market growth in North America is under pressure, the Companys outlook for the balance of 2012 is robust with visibility to orders in the international and deepwater markets. Additionally, we continue to gain share in our surface North America market.
Capital investment continues. Balance sheet strong
Camerons operations generated cash of $163.5 million during the second quarter. Moore said cash flow from operations should accelerate in the back half of the year as Camerons working capital needs should continue to moderate. Moore also noted that Cameron spent approximately $182 million in capital expenditures in the first half. We expect capital spending to approximate $500 million for 2012, Moore said, as we focus on investments in our aftermarket and unconventional resource related businesses, as well as our Brazilian capacity expansion.
Full-year earnings guidance
Moore said Camerons third quarter earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.87 to $0.90 per share, and that the Company anticipates that full-year 2012 earnings, excluding charges, will be in the range of $3.20 to $3.30 per share.
 
 
 
Cameron (NYSE: CAM) is a leading provider of flow equipment products, systems and services to worldwide oil, gas and process industries.
###
Website:
www.c-a-m.com
In addition to the historical data contained herein, this document includes forward-looking statements regarding future orders, cash flow and earnings of the Company (including third quarter and full year 2012 earnings per share estimates), as well as expectations regarding working capital needs and capital expenditures, made in reliance upon the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The Companys actual results may differ materially from those described in forward-looking statements.  Such statements are based on current expectations of the Companys performance and are subject to a variety of factors, some of which are not under the control of the Company, which can affect the Companys results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.  Such factors may include overall demand for, and pricing of, the Companys products; the size and timing of orders; the Companys ability to successfully execute the large subsea and drilling systems projects it has been awarded; the possibility of cancellations of orders; the Companys ability to convert backlog into revenues on a timely and profitable basis; the impact of acquisitions the Company has made or may make; changes in the price of (and demand for) oil and gas in both domestic and international markets; raw material costs and availability; political and social issues affecting the countries in which the Company does business; fluctuations in currency markets worldwide; and variations in global economic activity.  In particular, current and projected oil and gas prices historically have generally directly affected customers spending levels and their related purchases of the Companys products and services.  Additionally, changes in oil and gas price expectations may impact the Companys financial results due to changes it may make in its cost structure, staffing or spending levels.
.
Because the information herein is based solely on data currently available, it is subject to change as a result of changes in conditions over which the Company has no control or influence, and should not therefore be viewed as assurance regarding the Companys future performance.  Additionally, the Company is not obligated to make public indication of such changes unless required under applicable disclosure rules and regulations
 
 
 
Cameron
Unaudited Consolidated Condensed Results of Operations
($ and shares in millions except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Individual adjustments assume a 21.7% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 247.7 million diluted shares
(2)
      These derivatives have not been designated as accounting hedges
(3)
      Individual adjustments assume a 21.0% effective tax rate
(1)
      Based on 249.9 million diluted shares
(2)


