ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This discussion summarizes the significant factors affecting the consolidated results of operations and financial condition of the Company for fiscal 2005, fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003. This discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by, the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report. Fiscal 2005 Overview and Fiscal 2006 Outlook During fiscal 2005, the Company began the implementation of four key initiatives designed to increase sales and profitability: the installation of refrigerated coolers in selected stores; the introduction of a Treasure Hunt merchandise program; the continuation of an aggressive store opening program; and the Urban Initiative. During fiscal 2006, the Company will continue these initiatives as discussed below. Coolers The installation of refrigerated coolers for the sale of perishable food began in the second quarter of fiscal 2005. The customer traffic generated by coolers increased sales of food and other merchandise throughout the store. At the end of fiscal 2005, refrigerated coolers were installed in approximately 1,000 stores. The Company plans to have refrigerated coolers installed in approximately 2,500 additional stores by the end of fiscal 2006. In addition, the Company is testing new point of sale software in a limited number of stores to facilitate the acceptance of food stamps in stores with refrigerated coolers. Treasure Hunt merchandise program During fiscal 2005, the Company began supplementing its basic assortment of merchandise with additional opportunistically purchased goods designed to create more excitement in stores throughout the year, with particular emphasis on holiday, spring and back to school seasons. The Company will enhance this initiative in fiscal 2006. New Stores During fiscal 2005, the Company opened 500 stores and closed 68 stores. In order to build processes that will support a more balanced distribution of store openings throughout the year, the Company plans to open approximately 400 stores and close approximately 65 stores in fiscal 2006. Urban Initiative The Urban Initiative is designed to improve the operating performance of high sales volume stores in large metropolitan markets through investments in people, process changes and technology, including organizational changes to support a more mobile and flexible workforce. During fiscal 2005, the Urban Initiative was implemented in approximately 1,200 stores. While the Urban Initiative stores have experienced mid single digit sales growth and continue to be profitable, the Companys profitability goals have not yet been achieved. For fiscal 2006, the Company will continue its investments in the current Urban Initiative markets (approximately 1,300 stores) but does not expect to expand the initiative into new markets until processes have been refined to generate improved results. The Company currently expects net income per diluted share of Common Stock to be between $1.30 and $1.39 for fiscal 2006, compared to $1.30 in fiscal 2005. The net income per diluted share of Common Stock guidance for fiscal 2006 includes the impact of the expensing of stock options as required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123R, Share Based Payment, and other new compensation programs, and also includes the accretive benefit of the Companys share repurchase program and related debt placement. See the Recent Accounting Pronouncements contained in this MD&A for more information on the impact of SFAS No. 123R and the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for more information on the Companys share repurchase program and issuance of the Notes. Subsequent to the Companys fiscal 2005 year end, Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita struck the U.S. Gulf Coast, impacting numerous stores in the afflicted areas. The Company has property insurance that covers most of its property damage. Since the Companys stores are widely dispersed, lost sales due to closed stores are generally limited and are often offset by increased sales in other stores. Therefore, these storms have not had a material impact in the aggregate on the Companys financial position, liquidity or results of operations. The long term impact of these storms is more difficult to forecast. The potential increase in energy costs over the long term could negatively impact the Company and its customers. However, the resources received by customers from government and private organizations and the funds contributed in the rebuilding effort could positively impact sales. Therefore, the Company has not included any impact from these storms in its fiscal 2006 outlook. Net Sales Net sales increased approximately 10.3% ($542.9 million) in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004, and approximately 11.2% ($531.7 million) in fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003. The increases in fiscal 2005 and in fiscal 2004 were attributable, in part, to increased sales in comparable stores (stores open more than 13 months) of 2.3% ($117.1 million) and 1.9% ($86.3 million), respectively, with the balance of the increases primarily relating to sales from new stores 11 opened as part of the Companys store growth program. The Urban Initiative, the installation of refrigerated coolers and the Treasure Hunt merchandise program all had positive impacts on sales in fiscal 2005. Sales of lower margin basic consumables continued to be stronger than sales of higher margin discretionary goods during fiscal 2005, reflecting the difficult economic environment, including higher energy prices, faced by the Companys low and lower middle income customer base. The 2.3% increase in comparable store sales during fiscal 2005 includes an increase of approximately 3.7% in the sales of hardline merchandise and a decrease of approximately 2.6% in the sales of softline merchandise. In fiscal 2005, the customer count, as measured by the number of register transactions in comparable stores, decreased approximately 0.7%, and the average transaction increased approximately 2.9% to $9.22. Increased sales of hardline merchandise have been the primary contributor to the overall sales increases. Hardline merchandise, as a percentage of net sales, increased to approximately 78.8% in fiscal 2005 compared to approximately 77.7% in fiscal 2004. Softline merchandise, as a percentage of net sales, decreased to approximately 21.2% in fiscal 2005 compared to approximately 22.3% in fiscal 2004. The Company distributed four advertising circulars in fiscal 2005 and one advertising circular in fiscal 2004. The circulars are designed to stimulate traffic and inform customers about the Companys Treasure Hunt merchandise, seasonal values and competitive prices on core consumables. During fiscal 2006, the Company expects to distribute four advertising circulars. The 1.9% increase in comparable store sales during fiscal 2004 as compared with fiscal 2003 includes an increase of approximately 3.2% in the sales of hardline merchandise and a decrease of approximately 2.5% in the sales of softline merchandise. Sales of consumable merchandise were stronger than sales of more discretionary merchandise. In fiscal 2004, the customer count increased approximately 0.7%, and the average transaction increased approximately 0.9% to $8.95. The Company distributed one advertising circular in both fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003. Hardline merchandise includes household chemical and paper products, candy, snacks and other food, health and beauty aids, electronics, housewares and giftware, pet food and supplies, toys, stationery and school supplies, seasonal goods, hardware and automotive supplies. Softline merchandise includes mens, womens, boys, girls and infants clothing, shoes, and domestic items such as blankets, sheets and towels. During fiscal 2006, the Company expects comparable store sales to increase 2% to 4% as a result of the ongoing rollout of refrigerated coolers, the impact from Treasure Hunt merchandise sales and the operational improvements resulting from the Urban Initiative program. During fiscal 2005, the Company opened 500 stores and closed 68 stores for a net addition of 432 stores, compared with the opening of 500 stores and closing of 61 stores for a net addition of 439 stores during fiscal 2004. The Company also expanded or relocated 49 stores in fiscal 2005, compared with 79 stores that were expanded or relocated in fiscal 2004. In addition, approximately 105 stores in fiscal 2005 and 116 stores in fiscal 2004 were renovated. In order to build processes that will support a more balanced distribution of store openings throughout the year, the Company plans to open approximately 400 stores and close approximately 65 stores in fiscal 2006. The Company also plans to relocate, expand, or renovate approximately 75 stores during fiscal 2006. Store opening, closing, expansion, relocation and renovation plans are continuously reviewed and are subject to change. Cost of Sales and Margin Cost of sales increased approximately 11.8% ($412.3 million) in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004 and approximately 11.1% ($350.5 million) in fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003. These increases primarily reflected the additional sales volume in each of the years. Cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, was 67.1% in fiscal 2005 and 66.2% in both fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003. The increase in cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, during fiscal 2005 was due primarily to the continuing shift in the merchandise mix of sales to more lower margin consumables and fewer higher margin discretionary goods, increased inventory shrinkage and increased freight costs due to higher fuel expense. To address inventory shrinkage, the Company is implementing new loss prevention reports that provide more visibility to transaction level issues and is adding personnel to its Loss Prevention Department. In addition, as part of its Urban Initiative, the Company modified its field management structure to increase management presence and the frequency of inspections in urban markets. The opening of the Companys eighth distribution center in Marianna, Florida, in the second quarter of fiscal 2005 positively impacted freight costs by lowering the average distance to the stores from the distribution centers. Increases in productivity and efficiency, such as increased back hauls and optimization and consolidation of inbound routing have also offset some of the cost increases. However, these savings did not fully offset the impact of higher year over year fuel costs. The Company expects that the opening of the ninth distribution center in Rome, New York, during the third quarter of fiscal 2006 will positively impact freight costs and continue to offset higher fuel costs. Cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, in fiscal 2004 was unchanged from fiscal 2003. The percentage was 12 favorably impacted by a change in the treatment of certain vendor allowances in conformity with an accounting pronouncement, as well as from lower merchandise markdowns. However, the favorable impact of the change in the treatment of certain vendor allowances was offset by a shift in the merchandise mix to more lower margin basic consumables and relatively less sales of higher margin discretionary merchandise. Cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, in fiscal 2004 was also negatively impacted by increased inventory shrinkage and increased freight costs due to higher fuel expense. During fiscal 2006, the Company expects that cost of sales, as a percentage of net sales, will be flat or increase slightly as compared to fiscal 2005 due to the continuing effect of the shift in the merchandise mix to more lower margin basic consumables and rising fuel costs. Lower markdowns and lower inventory shrinkage are expected to offset these increases. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased approximately 14.1% ($194.5 million) in fiscal 2005 compared with fiscal 2004, and approximately 12.9% ($157.7 million) in fiscal 2004 compared with fiscal 2003. The increases in these expenses were attributable primarily to additional costs arising from the continued growth in the number of stores in operation and the continued ramp up of the eighth distribution center. SG&A expenses, as a percentage of net sales, were 27.0% in fiscal 2005, 26.1% in fiscal 2004 and 25.7% in fiscal 2003. The increase in SG&A expenses, as a percentage of net sales, in fiscal 2005 was due primarily to planned payroll expenses incurred in connection with the urban and cooler initiatives (approximately 0.4% of net sales); increased occupancy and store related costs (approximately 0.4% of net sales); and increased legal related costs (approximately 0.1% of net sales). Each of these percentages was negatively impacted by the lower than planned increase in sales in comparable stores. A cumulative charge to correct property tax accruals on leased properties and the incremental costs of three additional advertising circulars also impacted this percentage (approximately 0.2% of net sales), but these amounts were offset by a reduction in bonus costs as the Company did not reach the earnings target necessary for payment of management bonuses. In addition, most other costs, as a percentage of net sales, were negatively impacted by the lower than planned increase in sales in comparable stores. The increase in SG&A expenses, as a percentage of net sales, in fiscal 2004 was due primarily to below plan sales which negatively impacted the Companys ability to leverage its cost structure. In addition, the effect of the change in treatment of certain vendor allowances negatively impacted expense leverage. Continued increases in insurance costs, primarily workers compensation, and increased rent expense also adversely impacted expense leverage. The increase in SG&A expense, as a percentage of net sales, for fiscal 2004 was offset slightly by a reduction in bonus costs as the Company did not reach the earnings target necessary for payment of full bonuses. During fiscal 2006, the Company expects SG&A expense, as a percentage of net sales, to increase as compared to fiscal 2005 due to the expanded rollout of the cooler program and the continued investments in the existing Urban Initiative markets. In addition, the required expensing of stock options and other compensation plan changes will increase SG&A expenses, as a percentage of net sales. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 36.5% in fiscal 2005, 36.6% in fiscal 2004 and 36.5% in fiscal 2003. For fiscal 2006, the Companys plan is for the effective tax rate to increase to 37.0% due to the effect of changes in state income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company has consistently maintained a strong liquidity position. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal 2005 was $299.4 million as compared to $376.5 million in fiscal 2004 and $302.3 million in fiscal 2003. These amounts have enabled the Company to fund its regular operating needs, capital expenditure program, cash dividend payments and any repurchase of the Companys Common Stock. In addition, the Company has unsecured revolving credit facilities with banks for short term borrowings of up to $200 million. On May 25, 2006, $100 million of the facilities will expire, and the remaining $100 million will expire on May 31, 2010. The Company expects that the facilities expiring May 25, 2006, will be extended. The Company had no borrowings against these facilities during fiscal 2005. Merchandise inventories at the end of fiscal 2005 were 11.3% higher than at the end of fiscal 2004. This increase was due primarily to additional inventory for 432 net new stores. Inventory on a per store basis at the end of fiscal 2005 was 1.8% higher than at the end of fiscal 2004, excluding merchandise in transit to the distribution centers. All of this increase was in hardline merchandise, which increased approximately 4.3% per store, reflecting the early receipt of holiday merchandise and new inventory associated with the cooler program. Average softline merchandise inventory per store, 13 excluding merchandise in transit to the distribution centers, decreased approximately 5.2% as the Company aggressively managed these items to prevent an inventory buildup. The increase in capital expenditures to $229.1 million in fiscal 2005 from $218.7 million in fiscal 2004 was due primarily to greater distribution center construction expenditures. In addition, the Company installed refrigerated coolers in approximately 1,000 stores. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2006 are expected to be between $210 and $225 million and relate primarily to new store openings; existing store expansions, relocations and renovations; construction of distribution centers; expenditures related to store focused technology infrastructure; and the continued implementation of a refrigerated cooler program for perishable goods in selected stores. The new store expansion and new distribution centers will require additional investment in merchandise inventories. Capital spending plans, including store opening plans, are continuously reviewed and are subject to change. Cash flow from current operations is expected to be sufficient to meet planned liquidity and operational capital resource needs, including store expansion and other capital spending programs. In addition, the Company has available revolving credit facilities as previously discussed. During fiscal 2004 and fiscal 2003, the Company purchased in the open market 5.6 million and 2.2 million shares of its Common Stock, respectively, at a cost of $176.7 million and $65.9 million, respectively. On April 13, 2005, the Company announced that the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to an additional 5 million shares of the Companys Common Stock from time to time as market conditions warrant. On August 19, 2005, the Company announced that the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional $300 million of the Companys Common Stock from time to time as market conditions warrant. During fiscal 2005, the Company purchased in the open market 3.3 million shares of the Companys Common Stock at a cost of $92.0 million. As of the end of fiscal 2005, the Company had approximately 18.7 million shares authorized to be purchased. On September 27, 2005, the Company obtained $250 million in aggregate proceeds through a private placement under section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, of the Notes. On October 4, 2005, the Company executed an overnight share repurchase transaction with a bank for the acquisition of 10 million shares, or approximately 6%, of the Companys outstanding Common Stock for an initial purchase price of $19.97 per share pursuant to the $300 million repurchase authorization. The proceeds from the Notes were used to finance this transaction. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report for more information. The following table shows the Companys obligations and commitments to make future payments under contractual obligations at the end of fiscal 2005 (in thousands): Payments Due During One Year Fiscal Period Ending Contractual Obligations Total August 2006 August 2007 August 2008 August 2009 August 2010 Thereafter Merchandise letters of credit $ 125,613 $ 125,613 $ $ $ $ $ Operating leases 1,135,810 252,588 225,649 188,636 150,096 107,522 211,319 Construction obligations 58,992 58,992 Total $ 1,320,415 $ 437,193 $ 225,649 $ 188,636 $ 150,096 $ 107,522 $ 211,319 Most of the Companys operating leases provide the Company with an option to extend the term of the lease at designated rates. See Properties herein. The following table shows the Companys other commercial commitments at the end of fiscal 2005 (in thousands): Other Commercial Commitments Total Amounts Committed Standby letters of credit $ 114,979 Surety bonds 6,458 Total $ 121,437 At the end of fiscal 2005, approximately $78.1 million of the merchandise letters of credit were included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the Companys balance sheet. A substantial portion of the outstanding amount of standby letters of credit and surety bonds (which are primarily renewed on an annual basis) are used as surety for future premium and deductible payments to the Companys workers compensation and general liability insurance carrier. The Company accrues 14 for these future payment liabilities as described in the Critical Accounting Policies section of this MD&A. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123R which requires all companies to measure compensation cost for all share based payments (including employee stock options) at fair value, effective for public companies for interim or annual periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The FASB concluded that companies can adopt the new standard in one of two ways: the modified prospective transition method, in which the company would recognize share based employee compensation from the beginning of the fiscal period in which the recognition provisions are first applied as if the fair value based accounting method had been used to account for all employee awards granted, modified, or settled after the effective date and to any awards that were not fully vested as of the effective date; or the modified retrospective transition method, in which a company would recognize employee compensation cost for periods presented prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123 Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, pursuant to which a company would recognize employee compensation cost in the amounts reported in the pro forma disclosures provided in accordance with SFAS No. 123. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 123R during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and will use the modified prospective transition method. On August 18, 2005, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the acceleration of the vesting date of certain previously issued and outstanding options under the 1989 Non Qualified Stock Option Plan, effective as of August 26, 2005. The accelerated vesting program applies to: (i) all unvested options that currently have an exercise price in excess of $40.00/share, including options held by the five most highly compensated executive officers of the Company, and (ii) all unvested options that are underwater (i.e. the options have an exercise price in excess of the market value of the stock, determined as of August 26, 2005) and are held by employees at the level of manager or below. The Company implemented the acceleration program to enhance retention incentives for current employees and to reduce the compensation expense the Company would otherwise be required to recognize as a result of the Companys adoption, effective for fiscal 2006, of SFAS 123R. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Report for information on the impact of the vesting acceleration on the fiscal 2005 pro forma stock based compensation cost. During fiscal 2006, the Company expects to incur incremental SG&A expense of approximately $6 million to $10 million related to the 1989 Non Qualified Stock Option Plan as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. In addition, the Company expects to incur incremental SG&A expense of approximately $4 million to $6 million during fiscal 2006 in connection with the expected implementation of new compensation programs, which are designed to improve the linkage between pay and performance. Critical Accounting Policies Management believes the following accounting principles are critical because they involve significant judgments, assumptions and estimates used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Merchandise Inventories: Inventories are valued using the retail method, based on retail prices less markon percentages, which approximates the lower of first in, first out (FIFO) cost or market. The Company records adjustments to inventory through cost of goods sold when retail price reductions, or markdowns, are taken against on hand inventory. In addition, management makes estimates and judgments regarding, among other things, initial markups, markdowns, future demand for specific product categories and market conditions, all of which can significantly impact inventory valuation. If actual demand or market conditions are different than those projected by management, additional markdowns may be necessary. This risk is generally higher for seasonal merchandise than for non seasonal goods. The Company also provides for estimated inventory losses for damaged, lost or stolen inventory for the period from the physical inventory to the financial statement date. These estimates are based on historical experience and other factors. Property and Equipment: Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation for financial reporting purposes is calculated using the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. For leasehold improvements, this depreciation is over the shorter of the term of the related lease (generally five years) or the assets useful economic life. The valuation and classification of these assets and the assignment of useful depreciable lives involves significant judgments and the use of estimates. The Company generally assigns no salvage value to property and equipment. Property and equipment is reviewed 15 for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Historically, impairment losses on fixed assets have not been material to the Companys financial position and results of operations. Insurance Liabilities: The Company is primarily self insured for health care, property loss, workers compensation and general liability costs. These costs are significant primarily due to the large number of the Companys retail locations and employees. Because the nature of these claims is such that there can be a significant lag from the incurrence of the claim (which is when the expense is accrued) until payment is made, the percentage increase in the accrual can be much more pronounced than the percentage increase in the expense. The Companys self insurance liabilities are based on the total estimated costs of claims filed and estimates of claims incurred but not reported, less amounts paid against such claims, and are not discounted. Management reviews current and historical claims data in developing its estimates. The Company also uses information provided by outside actuaries with respect to workers compensation and general liability claims. If the underlying facts and circumstances of the claims change or the historical trend is not indicative of future trends, then the Company may be required to record additional expense or a reduction to expense which could be material to the reported financial condition and results of operations. Lease Accounting: The Company leases substantially all of its store properties and accounts for store leases in accordance with SFAS 13, Accounting for Leases. For purposes of recognizing incentives, premiums and minimum rental expenses on a straight line basis over terms of the leases, the Company uses the date of initial possession to begin amortization, which is generally when the Company enters the space and begins to make improvements in preparation of intended use. For tenant improvement allowances and rent holidays, the Company records a deferred rent liability at the inception of the lease term and amortizes the deferred rent over the terms of the leases as reductions to rent expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements Certain statements contained in this Report, or in other public filings, press releases, or other written or oral communications made by the Company or our representatives, which are not historical facts are forward looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward looking statements address the Companys plans, activities or events which the Company expects will or may occur in the future and may include express or implied projections of revenue or expenditures, statements of plans and objectives for future operations, growth or initiatives, statements of future economic performance, or statements regarding the outcome or impact of pending or threatened litigation. These forward looking statements may be identified by the use of the words plan, estimate, expect, anticipate, probably, should, project, intend, continue, and other similar terms and expressions. Various risks, uncertainties and other factors may cause the Companys actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward looking statements. Factors, uncertainties and risks that may result in actual results differing from such forward looking information include, but are not limited to those listed below, as well as other factors discussed throughout this Report, including without limitation the factors described under Critical Accounting Policies. Success of merchandising and marketing programs The Company undertakes new programs and refines existing programs to increase net sales and its customer base. The Company may be adversely impacted if merchandise and marketing programs fail to attract customers into its stores or if the merchandising programs implemented by the Company are not attractive to its customers. Unusual weather or natural disasters that may impact sales and or operations Extreme changes in weather patterns or other natural disasters influence customer trends and purchases. Likewise, weather patterns and natural disasters may negatively impact sales and or operation of the Company. Competitive factors The Company is in a highly competitive sector of the discount retail merchandise sector with numerous competitors, some of whom may have greater resources than the Company. The Company competes for customers, merchandise, real 16 estate locations and employees. This competitive environment subjects the Company to various risks, including the ability to continue its store growth and provide attractive merchandise to its customers at competitive prices that allow the Company to maintain its profitability. Pricing pressures, including inflation and energy prices Increases in the cost of goods and services, including changes resulting from inflationary pressures, may reduce the Companys profitability and or sales. The Companys ability to pass on incremental pricing changes may be limited due to operational and or competitive factors. Increases in prices, including changes in energy prices, may impact the Companys customer base by limiting the amount of discretionary spending of its customers and may impact the Company through increased costs of goods and or increased operating expenses. Changes in consumer demand and product mix; and changes in overall economic conditions A general slowdown in the U.S. economy may adversely affect the spending of the Companys customers, which may result in lower net sales than expected on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, changes in the types of products made available for sale and the selection of the products by customers affect sales, product mix and margins. Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, such as employment levels, business conditions, fuel and energy costs, interest rates, and tax rates, could also adversely affect the Companys business by reducing spending or causing customers to shift their spending to other products. The impact of acts of war or terrorism and transportation and distribution delays or interruptions Significant acts of terrorism, existing U.S. military efforts, as well as the involvement of the U.S. in other military engagements, could have an adverse impact on the Company by, among other things, disrupting its distribution or information systems, causing dramatic increases in fuel prices which increase the cost of doing business, or impeding the flow of imports or domestic products to the Company. Delays or interruptions in the transportation and distribution of products could have an adverse impact on the Company. Merchandise supply and pricing and the interruption of and dependence on imports The Company has generally been able to obtain sufficient quantities of attractive merchandise at prices that allow the Company to profitably sell such merchandise. Any disruption in that supply and or the pricing of such merchandise could negatively impact the Companys operations and results. A significant amount of the goods sold by the Company are imported, and changes to the flow of these goods for any reason could have an adverse impact on the Company. Delays associated with building and opening of distribution facilities and stores and costs of operating distribution facilities and stores The Company maintains a network of distribution facilities in its geographic territory, and constructs new facilities to support its growth. In addition, the Company expands its network of stores through opening new stores and remodeling existing stores each year. Delays in opening distribution facilities or stores could adversely affect the Companys future operations by slowing growth, which may in turn reduce revenue growth. Adverse changes in the cost to operate distribution facilities and stores, such as changes in labor, utility, and other operating costs, could have an adverse impact on the Company. Adverse changes in inventory shrinkage at the store level or in distribution facilities could have a negative impact on the Company. Operational difficulties The Companys stores are decentralized and are managed through a network of geographically dispersed management personnel. Inability of the Company to effectively and efficiently operate its stores, including the ability to control losses resulting from inventory shrinkage, may negatively impact the Companys sales and or margin. In addition, the Company relies upon its distribution and logistics network to provide goods to stores in a timely and cost effective manner; any disruption, unanticipated expense or operational failure related to this process could negatively impact store operations. Finally, the Companys operations are facilitated by the use of various technologies, the disruption or failure of which could negatively impact the Companys operations. 17 Higher costs, potential problems and achievement of targeted results associated with the implementation of new programs, systems and technology The Company is undertaking a variety of operating initiatives as well as infrastructure initiatives. The failure to properly execute any of these initiatives could have an adverse impact on the future operating results of the Company. Changes in state or federal legislation or regulations, including the effects of legislation and regulations on wage levels and entitlement programs; changes in currency exchange rates, trade restrictions, tariffs, quotas and freight rates Unanticipated changes in federal or state wage requirements or other changes in workplace regulation could adversely impact the Companys ability to achieve its financial targets. Because a substantial amount of the Companys imported merchandise comes from China, a change in the Chinese currency policy could negatively impact the Companys merchandise costs. Changes in trade restrictions, new tariffs and quotas, and higher shipping costs for goods could also adversely impact the ability of the Company to achieve anticipated operating results. Success of new store opening program The Companys growth is dependent on both increases in sales in existing stores and the ability to open new stores. Unavailability of store locations that the Company deems attractive, delays in the acquisition or opening of new stores, difficulties in staffing and operating new store locations and lack of customer acceptance of stores in expanded market areas all may negatively impact the Companys new store growth, the costs associated with new stores and or the profitability of new stores. Changes in the Companys ability to attract and retain employees, and changes in health care and other insurance costs The growth of the Company could be adversely impacted by its inability to attract and retain employees at the store operations level, in distribution facilities, and at the corporate level, including the Companys senior management team. Adverse changes in health care costs could also adversely impact the Companys ability to achieve its operational and financial goals and to offer attractive benefit programs to its employees. Adverse impacts associated with legal proceedings and claims The Company is a party in a variety of legal proceedings and claims, including those described elsewhere in this Report. Operating results for the Company could be adversely impacted if legal proceedings and claims against the Company are made, requiring the payment of cash towards those proceedings or changes to the operation of the business. All of the forward looking statements made by the Company in this Report and other documents or statements are qualified by these and other factors, risks and uncertainties. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Report. The Company does not undertake to publicly update or revise its forward looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that projected results expressed or implied in such statements will not be realized. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on its financing, investing and cash management activities. The Company maintains unsecured revolving credit facilities at variable interest rates to meet the short term needs of its expansion program and seasonal inventory increases. 18 
 
