FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20040630162420.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): JUNE 30, 2004 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) OHIO (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-11373 31-0958666 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification Number) 7000 CARDINAL PLACE, DUBLIN, OHIO 43017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code) (614) 757-5000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION The information set forth under this "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished and such information, including the Exhibits attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. A copy of a press release dated June 30, 2004 and issued on such date by the Registrant announcing an updated earnings outlook and an additional government inquiry is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.01. Attached hereto as Exhibit 99.02 is a discussion of the reasons why management believes that presenting results that exclude the impact of special charges provides a useful representation of the Registrant's current performance and trends. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Cardinal Health, Inc. (Registrant) Date: June 30, 2004 By: /s/ Paul S. Williams --------------------- Name: Paul S. Williams Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary 2
EXHIBIT INDEX 99.01 Press Release issued by the Registrant on June 30, 2004, and furnished under this Current Report. 99.02 Information released by the Registrant on June 30, 2004, and furnished under this Current Report. 3

Exhibit 99.01 [Cardinal Health Logo] 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, OH 43017 www.cardinal.com CONTACTS: Media: Jim Mazzola Investors: Jim Hinrichs (614) 757-3690 (614) 757-7828 jim.mazzola@cardinal.com jim.hinrichs@cardinal.com NOTE: CARDINAL HEALTH HAS SCHEDULED A CONFERENCE CALL FOR INVESTORS TODAY AT 6 P.M. EASTERN DAYLIGHT TIME TO DISCUSS ITS UPDATED OUTLOOK. TO ACCESS THIS DISCUSSION VIA THE INTERNET, GO TO THE INVESTOR RELATIONS PAGE AT WWW.CARDINAL.COM. THE COMPANY HAS ALSO ESTABLISHED A TELEPHONE CALL-IN LINE AT (706) 634-5100. CARDINAL HEALTH UPDATES EARNINGS OUTLOOK ANNOUNCES ADDITIONAL GOVERNMENT INQUIRY DUBLIN, OHIO, JUNE 30, 2004 -- Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH), the leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry, today announced earnings per share for its fiscal year 2004 are expected to increase approximately 11 percent, which is below prior guidance of mid-teens or better growth. Operating cash flow for the fourth quarter was substantially above expectations and for the full year is now expected to exceed $2 billion, well ahead of the company's $1.3 billion prior guidance. Earnings per share expectations for the company's fourth quarter and full fiscal year ended today are summarized in the following table. EARNINGS PER SHARE EXPECTATIONS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS Q4 RANGE FISCAL YEAR 2004 RANGE -------- ---------------------- GAAP Earnings Per Share $0.88 - $0.91 $3.46 - $3.49 Special Items $(0.05) - $(0.04) $(0.07) - $(0.06) Earnings Per Share, Excluding Special Items $0.93 - $0.95 $3.53 - $3.55 -more-
Cardinal Health Updates Earnings Outlook Page 2 The company also affirmed its long-term goal to increase earnings per share at a mid-teens or better rate. However, for the upcoming fiscal year 2005, growth is expected to be lower, at a rate of at least 10 percent, with continued strong cash flow and return on equity. Growth expectations for fiscal 2005 exclude special items, which the company believes can not be reasonably projected at this time. Separately, the company announced that on June 21, as part of the Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) formal investigation disclosed by the company on May 14, it received an SEC subpoena that included a request for the production of documents relating to revenue classification, and the methods used for such classification, in the company's pharmaceutical distribution business as either operating revenue or revenues from bulk deliveries to customer warehouses. In addition, Cardinal Health has learned that the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York has commenced an inquiry that the company understands relates to this same subject. This subject is also being reviewed as part of the ongoing inquiry by Cardinal Health's Audit Committee and its independent counsel. As previously disclosed on May 16, the company understands the SEC and Audit Committee inquiries are not limited to this subject. Cardinal Health continues to respond to these inquiries and provide all information required. Cardinal Health has scheduled a conference call for investors today at 6 p.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) to discuss its updated outlook. To access this discussion via the Internet, go to the Investor Relations page at www.cardinal.com. The company has also established a telephone call-in line at (706) 634-5100. An audio replay of the conference call will be available until 11 p.m. EDT on July 2 by dialing (706) 645-9291, passcode 8506523. A transcript and replay of the Webcast will be available at the Investor Relations page on www.cardinal.com. ABOUT CARDINAL HEALTH CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. (www.cardinal.com) is the leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry. Cardinal Health develops, manufactures, packages and markets products for patient care; develops drug-delivery technologies; distributes pharmaceuticals and medical, surgical and laboratory supplies; and offers consulting and other services that improve quality and efficiency in health care. Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health employs more than 50,000 people on five continents and produces annual revenues of more than $50 billion. Cardinal Health is ranked No.17 on the current Fortune 500 list and named one of the best U.S. companies by Forbes magazine for 2004. #### - -------------------------- Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form 10-Q reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the costs, difficulties, and uncertainties related to the integration of acquired businesses, the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships, changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services, the costs and other effects of governmental regulation and legal and administrative investigations and proceedings, and general economic and market conditions. Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.

Exhibit 99.02 The Company incurred special items during the quarter and full fiscal year, consisting primarily of merger and restructuring costs, partially offset by income received in conjunction with settlement of litigation arising from antitrust claims against certain manufacturers. Merger charges include such items as costs associated with exit and consolidation of facilities as well as costs of integrating acquired businesses. Restructuring charges primarily relate to decisions made by management to incur costs to realign components of its business operations to meet current business demands. In the opinion of management, these items, by their nature, rarely have predictable trends and are not truly reflective of ongoing operating results. Therefore, the Company presents its results on both a GAAP basis (GAAP) and a GAAP basis excluding these items ("adjusted"). Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the "adjusted" numbers as a supplemental metric to assist readers. It should be noted that the items being adjusted from the GAAP results represent actual income or expense to the Company. These items impact operating cash flow available to support on-going operations. As such, these items are an important component of the financial performance of the Company and any metric excluding them will present an incomplete picture. Nevertheless, management uses "adjusted" results to measure its performance, in addition to the GAAP results. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use a metric that is free of charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger related activity and litigation. While these may be recurring items for the Company, management believes they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and are related more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions that tend to mask the trends and financial performance of the Company's products and services. Management also believes that investors may also find an unmasked view of the Company's core operations to be useful.


