FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20040206092304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): FEBRUARY 6, 2004 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) OHIO (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-11373 31-0958666 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification Number) 7000 CARDINAL PLACE, DUBLIN, OHIO 43017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code) (614) 757-5000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") and Robert D. Walter, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, amended and restated, as of February 1, 2004, Mr. Walter's existing employment agreement dated as of November 20, 2001. The amended and restated employment agreement, among other things, extends the "Initial Term" under Mr. Walter's employment agreement from June 30, 2004 through February 1, 2007. The Company entered into a new employment agreement, effective as of February 1, 2004, with George L. Fotiades, the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer. The new agreement replaces and supercedes Mr. Fotiades's prior employment agreement dated as of November 13, 2002, and provides for, among other things, a three-year term. The Company is filing copies of Mr. Walter's amended and restated employment agreement and Mr. Fotiades's new employment agreement as Exhibits 10.01 and 10.02, respectively, hereto. These exhibits are incorporated by reference into this Item 5 as if fully set forth herein. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Cardinal Health, Inc. (Registrant) Date: February 6, 2004 By: /s/ Paul S. Williams --------------------- Name: Paul S. Williams Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary -2-
EXHIBIT INDEX 10.01 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective as of February 1, 2004, between the Company and Robert D. Walter. 10.02 Employment Agreement, effective as of February 1, 2004, between the Company and George L. Fotiades. -3-

Exhibit 10.01 AMENDED AND RESTATED EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT This Amended and Restated Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") by and among Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), and Robert D. Walter (the "Executive"), amends and restates, as of February 1, 2004 (the "Amendment Date"), that certain Employment Agreement dated November 20, 2001, between the Company and the Executive. The Company has determined that because of the unique nature of the Executive's services to the Company it is in its best interests and those of its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication of the Executive, and to provide the Company with the continuity of management the Company considers crucial to ensuring the Company's continued success. Therefore, in order to accomplish these objectives, the Board of Directors and the Company have caused the Company to enter into this Agreement. NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY AGREED AS FOLLOWS: 1. Effective Date. The "Effective Date" shall mean November 20, 2001. 2. Employment Period. The Company hereby agrees to employ the Executive, and the Executive hereby agrees to be employed by the Company subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, for the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending on February 1, 2007 ("Initial Term"); provided, commencing on February 1, 2006, the employment period shall be extended each day by one day to create a new one year term until, at any time at or after such date, the Company or the Executive delivers a written notice to the other party that the employment period shall expire at the end of such one year term (the Initial Term as so extended is the "Employment Period"). 3. Terms of Employment. (a) Position and Duties. (i) During the Employment Period (A) the Executive shall serve as the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company with such authority, duties and responsibilities as are commensurate with such position and as may be consistent with such position, reporting directly to the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), and (B) the Executive's services shall be performed at such locations selected by the Executive, consistent with his obligations under Section 3(a)(ii) of this Agreement. (ii) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled, the Executive agrees to devote substantially all of his attention and time during normal business hours to the business and affairs of the Company and, to the extent necessary to discharge the responsibilities assigned to the Executive hereunder, to use the Executive's reasonable
best efforts to perform faithfully and efficiently such responsibilities. During the Employment Period, it shall not be a violation of this Agreement for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate, civic or charitable boards or committees, (B) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking engagements or teach at educational institutions and (C) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not significantly interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement. It is expressly understood and agreed that to the extent that any such activities have been conducted by the Executive prior to the Amendment Date, the continued conduct of such activities (or the conduct of activities similar in nature and scope thereto) subsequent to the Amendment Date shall thereafter be deemed not to interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities to the Company. (b) Compensation. (i) Base Salary. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annual base salary ("Annual Base Salary") of no less than $1,000,000. During the Employment Period, the Annual Base Salary shall be reviewed at the time that the salaries of all of the executive officers of the Company are reviewed. Any increase in Annual Base Salary shall not serve to limit or reduce any other obligation to the Executive under this Agreement. Annual Base Salary shall not be reduced after any such increase and the term Annual Base Salary as utilized in this Agreement shall refer to Annual Base Salary as so increased. (ii) Annual Bonus. For each fiscal year completed during the Employment Period, the Executive shall receive an annual cash bonus ("Annual Bonus") based upon performance targets that are established by the Board or an appropriate committee of the Board, provided that the Executive shall have a target Annual Bonus of at least 250% of his Annual Base Salary. (iii) Incentive Awards. The Executive shall be eligible for equity and non-equity awards under the Company's stock incentive and other long-term incentive compensation plans during the Employment Period as determined by the Board or an appropriate committee of the Board, consistent with past practice and CEO competitive pay practices, provided that during the Employment Period the Executive shall receive an annual stock option award with a value of no less than 3,000% of Annual Base Salary in terms of "dollars at work." (iv) Retirement Benefits. The Executive shall be eligible to participate in any supplemental executive retirement program established by the Company during the Employment Period. (v) Deferrable Restricted Share Unit Award. As of the Effective Date, the Executive was granted 150,000 shares of deferrable restricted stock units of the Company ("Restricted Share Unit Award"), which may be settled only in Company common stock, in accordance with the form of grant attached hereto as Exhibit A. Except as otherwise provided herein and in such deferrable restricted stock unit agreement, stock subject to such Restricted Share Unit Award will not be 2
distributable until the later to occur of (A) the Executive's 62nd birthday or (B) the first date on which the Executive ceases to be a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, of the Company, or such earlier date as may be approved by the Board. To the extent that dividends are paid on Company common stock after the Effective Date and prior to the date that the Company common stock subject to a Restricted Share Unit Award is issued to the Executive, the Executive shall be entitled to a cash payment in an amount equal to the dividends that he would have been entitled to receive had he been the owner of such unissued shares on the date such dividends are paid. Such cash payment shall be made at the same time as payment of dividends are made to other shareholders of Company common stock. The issuance of any Company common stock pursuant to a Restricted Share Unit Award shall be subject to the satisfaction of any and all conditions necessary for the issuance of such shares under applicable law. (vi) Extension of Vesting. As of the Amendment Date, the Executive agrees, (A) with respect to the Restricted Share Unit Award, to an extension of the vesting date from June 30, 2004 to January 15, 2006, and (B) with respect to the options granted to the Executive on November 19, 2001, to an extension of the grant vesting date from November 19, 2004 to January 15, 2006. The Restricted Share Units Agreement dated November 20, 2001, between the Company and the Executive (the "2001 RSU Agreement") and the Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement dated November 19, 2001 between the Company and the Executive (the "2001 Option Agreement"), respectively, are hereby amended to reflect the vesting date extensions described in the preceding sentence. Except as expressly modified herein, the 2001 RSU Agreement and the 2001 Option Agreement remain unchanged. (vii) Other Benefits. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all employee pension, welfare, perquisites, fringe benefit, and other benefit plans, practices, policies and programs generally applicable to the most senior executives of the Company on a basis and on terms no less favorable than that provided to the Executive immediately prior to the Effective Date. (viii) Expenses. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all expenses incurred by the Executive in accordance with the Company's policies for its senior executives. (ix) Vacation. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to paid vacation in accordance with the plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company as in effect with respect to the senior executives of the Company. 4. Termination of Employment. (a) Death or Disability. The Executive's employment shall terminate automatically upon the Executive's death during the Employment Period. If the Company determines in good faith that the Disability of the Executive has occurred during the Employment Period (pursuant to the definition of Disability set forth below), it may give to the 3
Executive written notice in accordance with Section 11(a) of this Agreement of its intention to terminate the Executive's employment. In such event, the Executive's employment with the Company shall terminate effective on the 30th day after receipt of such notice by the Executive (the "Disability Effective Date"), provided that, within the 30 days after such receipt, the Executive shall not have returned to full-time performance of the Executive's duties. For purposes of this Agreement, "Disability" shall mean the absence of the Executive from the Executive's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive calendar days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness which is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Executive or the Executive's legal representative. (b) Cause. The Company may terminate the Executive's employment during the Employment Period for Cause. For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean: (i) the willful and continued failure of the Executive to perform substantially the Executive's duties with the Company or one of its affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness), after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board or its representative, which specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that the Executive has not substantially performed the Executive's duties, or (ii) the willful engaging by the Executive in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company or its affiliates, or (iii) conviction of a felony or guilty or nolo contendere plea by the Executive with respect thereto; or (vi) a material breach of Section 9 of this Agreement. For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act on the part of the Executive shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Executive's act or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon express authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board with respect to such act or omission or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Executive in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The cessation of employment of the Executive shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Executive a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board (not including the Executive) at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Executive and the Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, the Executive is guilty of the conduct described in subparagraph (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) above, and specifying the particulars thereof in detail. The definition of "Cause" hereunder shall supersede any provision of any Plan or Agreement (as hereafter defined) that provides for a Forfeiture or Payment (as 4
hereafter defined) upon the Executive's violation of a Company policy or similar such conduct under such Plan or Agreement. (c) Good Reason. The Executive's employment may be terminated by the Executive for Good Reason. For purposes of this Agreement, "Good Reason" shall mean in the absence of a written consent of the Executive: (i) the assignment to the Executive of any duties materially inconsistent in any respect with the Executive's position (including status, offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities as contemplated by Section 3(a) of this Agreement, or any other action by the Company which results in a material diminution in such position, authority, duties or responsibilities, excluding for this purpose any action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive; (ii) any failure by the Company to comply with any of the provisions of Section 3(b) of this Agreement, other than a failure not occurring in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive; (iii) the Company requiring the Executive to be based at any office or location more than 10 miles from that provided in Section 3(a)(i)(B) hereof, provided that reasonable travel required in connection with Executive's reporting relationships and responsibilities to the Board shall not be deemed a breach hereof; (iv) any purported termination by the Company of the Executive's employment otherwise than as expressly permitted by this Agreement; (v) any failure by the Company to comply with and satisfy Section 10(b) of this Agreement; (vi) the Company giving Executive a notice of the termination of the Employment Period effective at the end of or after the Initial Term, pursuant to Section 2 prior to the Executive's attaining age 62; or (vii) the occurrence of a Change of Control (as hereinafter defined). (d) Notice of Termination. Any termination by the Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, shall be communicated by Notice of Termination to the other party hereto given in accordance with Section 11(b) of this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" means a written notice which (i) indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon, (ii) to the extent applicable, sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated and (iii) if the Date of Termination (as defined below) is other than the date of receipt of such notice, specifies the termination date (which date shall be not more than thirty days after the giving of such notice). The failure by the Executive or the Company to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstance 5
which contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause shall not waive any right of the Executive or the Company, respectively, hereunder or preclude the Executive or the Company, respectively, from asserting such fact or circumstance in enforcing the Executive's or the Company's rights hereunder. (e) Date of Termination. "Date of Termination" means (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Cause, or by the Executive for Good Reason, the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or any later date specified therein within 30 days of such notice, as the case may be, (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company other than for Cause or Disability, subject to the provisions of Section 5(d), the Date of Termination shall be the date on which the Company notifies the Executive of such termination and (iii) if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the Date of Termination shall be the date of death of the Executive or the Disability Effective Date, as the case may be. 5. Obligations of the Company upon Termination. (a) Good Reason; Other Than for Cause. If, during the Employment Period, the Company shall terminate the Executive's employment other than for Cause, death or Disability or the Executive shall terminate employment for Good Reason: (i) except as specified below, the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days after the Date of Termination the aggregate of the following amounts: A. the sum of (1) the Executive's Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination to the extent not theretofore paid, and (2) the product of (x) the average Annual Bonus paid to the Executive in respect of the three completed fiscal years prior to the Date of Termination, provided that such amount shall not be less than Executive's Annual Bonus at target hereunder (the "Recent Average Bonus"), and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs through the Date of Termination, and the denominator of which is 365, in each case to the extent not theretofore paid (the sum of the amounts described in clauses (1) and (2), shall be hereinafter referred to as the "Accrued Obligations"); and B. the amount equal to the product of (x) two, or if the Date of Termination is within three years after a Change of Control, three and (y) the sum of (I) the Executive's Annual Base Salary and (II) the Recent Average Bonus; and (ii) any stock options, restricted stock and restricted share units held by the Executive or a permitted transferee (whether granted under this Agreement or otherwise) shall vest immediately (with option exercisability continuing until the end of the option term); and (iii) to the extent not theretofore paid or provided, the Company shall timely pay or provide to the Executive any other amounts or benefits required to be paid or provided or which the Executive is eligible to receive under any plan, program, 6
policy or practice or contract or agreement of the Company and its affiliates (such amounts and benefits, the "Other Benefits") in accordance with the terms and normal procedures of each such plan, program, policy or practice; provided that Executive and his eligible dependents shall continue to participate in the Company's welfare benefit plans for the period during which severance is measured commencing on the Date of Termination. For purposes of this Agreement, "Change of Control" shall mean any of the following events: (i) the acquisition by an individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act)(a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of either (x) the then outstanding common shares of the Company (the "outstanding Company Common Shares") or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, (C) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company or (D) any acquisition by any corporation that is a Non-Control Acquisition (as defined in (iii) below); or (ii) the individuals who, as of the Effective Date constitute the Board of the Company (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of the Company provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the Effective Date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition by the Company of assets or shares of 7
another corporation (a "Business Combination"), unless such Business Combination is a Non-Control Acquisition. A "Non-Control Acquisition" means a Business Combination where, following such Business Combination, (x) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (y) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, twenty-five percent (25%) or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination (including any ownership that existed in the Company or the company being acquired, if any) and (z) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or (iv) approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. (b) Cause; Other than for Good Reason. If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for Cause or the Executive terminates his employment without Good Reason during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive other than the obligation to pay or provide to the Executive an amount equal to the amount set forth in clause (1) of Section 5(a)(i)(A) above, and the timely payment or provision of the Other Benefits, in each case to the extent theretofore unpaid, and subject also to the provisions of Section 5(d), below. In the event the Executive gives the Company notice of termination of the Employment Period effective at the end of or after the Initial Term, pursuant 8
to Section 2, the Company shall pay Executive the amount provided for in Section 5(a)(i)(A)(1), and shall provide the Executive (and his spouse, as applicable) Other Benefits. (c) Death. If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's death during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive's legal representatives under this Agreement, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of the Other Benefits. Additionally, any stock options, restricted stock and restricted stock units held by the Executive or a permitted transferee (granted under this Agreement or otherwise) shall immediately vest (with option exercisability continuing until the end of the option term). Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive's estate or beneficiary, as applicable, in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. (d) Disability; Retirement. If the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period, this Agreement shall terminate without further obligations to the Executive, other than for payment of Accrued Obligations and the timely payment or provision of Other Benefits. Accrued Obligations shall be paid to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination. Additionally, unless the award agreement with respect to an individual stock option, restricted stock or restricted share unit award otherwise provides for immediate and full vesting, for purposes of the vesting of any stock options, restricted stock or restricted share units held by the Executive or a permitted transferee (granted under this Agreement or otherwise), if the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's Disability during the Employment Period or the Executive's employment is terminated by reason of the Executive's retirement at any time after June 30, 2004, the Executive shall be treated as a consulting employee and any such stock options, restricted stock or restricted share units shall continue to vest in accordance with their original vesting schedule (with option exercisability continuing until the end of the option term), provided, that, the Executive and the Company shall enter into an agreement reasonably acceptable to the Executive pursuant to which the Executive will continue as a consulting employee from the Date of Termination or the retirement date, as applicable, until the third anniversary of the Date of Termination or the retirement date, as applicable. In the event that the Executive retires prior to June 30, 2004, all restricted stock, restricted share units and stock options shall continue to vest or be forfeited, as the case may be, in accordance with their original terms, provided that the Company (or an instrumentality thereof) may only exercise any right it may have to curtail vesting if the Executive is indicted for a felony involving moral turpitude or grievous bodily harm within 60 days after the Date of Termination. If the Executive shall die after termination by reason of his retirement or Disability, all stock options, restricted stock and restricted share units (other than with respect to the Restricted Share Unit Award in the event of death following a retirement prior to June 30, 2004) shall immediately vest and all stock options shall remain exercisable until the end of the option term. With respect to the provision of Other Benefits upon the Executive's Disability, the term Other Benefits as utilized in this Section 5(d) shall include, and the Executive shall be entitled after the Disability Effective Date to receive, disability and other benefits as in effect at any time thereafter generally with respect to senior executives of the Company. 6. Non-exclusivity of Rights. Except as specifically provided, nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any plan, 9
program, policy or practice provided by the Company, or any of its affiliates and for which the Executive may qualify, nor, subject to Section 11(f), shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Company, or its affiliates. Amounts which are vested benefits or which the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of or any contract or agreement with the Company or its affiliates at or subsequent to the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program or contract or agreement except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, the terms "affiliated companies" and "affiliates" shall include any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company. 7. Full Settlement. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment. The Company agrees to pay, to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur as a result of any contest by the Company, the Executive or others of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement or any guarantee of performance thereof (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement), plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), if the Executive prevails on any material claim made by him, and disputed by the Company under the terms of this Agreement. 8. Certain Additional Payments by the Company. If at any time for any reason any payment or distribution (a "Payment") by the Company or any other person or entity to or for the benefit of the Executive is determined to be a "parachute payment" (within the meaning of Section 280G (b) (2) of the Code), whether paid or payable or distributed or distributable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or otherwise in connection with or arising out of his employment with the Company or a change in ownership or excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Executive ( the "Excise Tax"), then within a reasonable period of time after such determination is reached the Company shall pay to the Executive an additional payment (the "Gross-Up Payment") in an amount such that the net amount retained by the Executive, after deduction of any Excise Tax on such Payment and any federal, state or local income or employment tax or other taxes and Excise Tax on the Gross-Up Payment, shall equal the amount of such Payment (including any interest or penalties with respect to any of the foregoing). All determinations concerning the application of the foregoing shall be made by a nationally recognized firm of independent accountants (together with legal counsel of its choosing) selected by the Company after consultation with the Executive (which may be the Company's independent auditors), whose determination shall be conclusive and binding on all parties. The fees and expenses of such accountants and counsel (including counsel for the Executive) shall be borne by the Company. If such independent auditors determine that no Excise Tax is payable by the Executive, it shall furnish the Executive with an opinion that the Executive has substantial authority not to report any Excise Tax on his 10
Federal income tax return. In the event the Internal Revenue Service assesses the Executive an amount of Excise Tax in excess of that determined in accordance with the foregoing, the Company shall pay to the Executive an additional Gross-Up Payment, calculated as described above in respect of such excess Excise Tax, including a Gross-Up Payment in respect of any interest or penalties imposed by the Internal Revenue Service with respect to such excess Excise Tax. 9. Covenants. (a) Introduction. The parties acknowledge that the provisions and covenants contained in this Section 9 are ancillary and material to this Agreement and that the limitations contained herein are reasonable in geographic and temporal scope and do not impose a greater restriction or restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill and other legitimate business interests of the Company. The parties also acknowledge and agree that the provisions of this Section 9 do not adversely affect the Executive's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate the covenants contained herein. The parties further acknowledge and agree that the provisions of Section 11(a) below are accurate and necessary because (i) this Agreement is entered into in the State of Ohio, (ii) Ohio has a substantial relationship to the parties and to this transaction, (iii) Ohio is the headquarters state of the Company, which has operations nationwide and has a compelling interest in having its employees treated uniformly within the United States, (iv) the use of Ohio law provides certainty to the parties in any covenant litigation in the United States, and (v) enforcement of the provision of this Section 9 would not violate any fundamental public policy of Ohio or any other jurisdiction. (b) Confidential Information. The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company and all of its subsidiaries, partnerships, joint ventures, limited liability companies, and other affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"), all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Cardinal Group and its businesses (including, without limitation, any proprietary and not publicly available information concerning any processes, methods, trade secrets, research secret data, costs, names of users or purchasers of their respective products or services, business methods, operating procedures or programs or methods of promotion and sale) that the Executive has obtained or obtains during the Executive's employment by the Cardinal Group and that is not public knowledge (other than as a result of the Executive's violation of this Section 9(b))("Confidential Information"). For the purposes of this Section 9(b), information shall not be deemed to be publicly available merely because it is embraced by general disclosures or because individual features or combinations thereof are publicly available. The Executive shall not communicate, divulge or disseminate Confidential Information at any time during or after the Executive's employment with the Cardinal Group, except with prior written consent of the applicable Cardinal Group company, or as otherwise required by law or legal process. All records, files, memoranda, reports, customer lists, drawings, plans, documents and the like that the Executive uses, prepares or comes into contact with during the course of the Executive's employment shall remain the sole property of the Company and/or the Cardinal Group, as applicable, and shall be turned over to the applicable Cardinal Group company upon termination of the Executive's employment. (c) Non-Recruitment of Cardinal Group Employees, etc. Executive shall not, at any time during the Restricted Period (as defined in this Section 9(c)), without the prior 11
written consent of the Company, engage in the following conduct (a "Solicitation"): (i) directly or indirectly, contact, solicit, recruit or employ (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor) any person who was or is at any time during the previous six months an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group; or (ii) take any action to encourage or induce any employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group to cease their relationship with the Cardinal Group for any reason. A "Solicitation" does not include any recruitment of employees within or for the Cardinal Group. The "Restricted Period" means the period of Executive's employment with the Cardinal Group (without regard to any period during which Executive serves as a consulting employee) and the additional period ending on the second anniversary of the Executive's Date of Termination or date of retirement, as applicable. (d) No Competition - - Solicitation of Business. During the Restricted Period, the Executive shall not (either directly or indirectly or as an officer, agent, employee, partner or director of any other company, partnership or entity) solicit, service, or accept on behalf of any competitor of the Cardinal Group the business of (i) any customer of the Cardinal Group at the time of the Executive's employment or Date of Termination, or (ii) any potential customer of the Cardinal Group which the Executive knew to be an identified, prospective purchaser of services or products of the Cardinal Group. (e) No Competition - - Employment by Competitor. During the Restricted Period, the Executive shall not invest in (other than in a publicly traded company with a maximum investment of no more than 1% of outstanding shares), counsel, advise, or be otherwise engaged or employed by, any entity or enterprise (other than an entity or enterprise with annual revenues of 10% or less of the Company's revenues controlled by any of the Executive's sons, including without limitation BoundTree Medical, Talisman Capital Partners or Inchord Communications, and which such foregoing exception shall apply for the purpose of the covenant of this Section 9(e) as well as any covenant or other limitation under any restricted stock, stock option or other stock incentive held by Executive) that competes with the Cardinal Group, by developing, manufacturing or selling any product or service of a type, respectively, developed, manufactured or sold by the Cardinal Group (each such person described, and not excepted, as a customer, potential customer or a competitor under Section 9(d) or this Section 9(e) is a "Competitor"). (f) No Disparagement (i) The Executive and the Company shall at all times refrain from taking actions or making statements, written or oral, that (A) denigrate, disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of Executive or the Cardinal Group, as the case may be, or any of its trustees, officers, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, or (B) are intended to, or may be reasonably expected to, adversely affect the morale of the employees of the Cardinal Group. The Executive further agrees not to make any negative statements to third parties relating to the Executive's employment or any aspect of the businesses of Cardinal Group and not to make any statements to third parties about the circumstances of the termination of the Executive's employment, or about the Cardinal Group or its trustees, directors, officers, 12
security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, except as may be required by a court or governmental body. (ii) The Executive further agrees that, following termination of employment for any reason, the Executive shall assist and cooperate with the Company with regard to any matter or project in which the Executive was involved during the Executive's employment with the Company, including but not limited to any litigation that may be pending or arise after such termination of employment. Further, the Executive agrees to notify the Company at the earliest opportunity of any contact that is made by any third parties concerning any such matter or project. The Company shall not unreasonably request such cooperation of Executive and shall compensate the Executive for any lost wages or expenses associated with such cooperation and assistance. (g) Inventions. All plans, discoveries and improvements, whether patentable or unpatentable, made or devised by the Executive, whether alone or jointly with others, from the date of the Executive's initial employment by the Company and continuing until the end of any period during which the Executive is employed by the Cardinal Group, relating or pertaining in any way to the Executive's employment with or the business of the Cardinal Group, shall be promptly disclosed in writing to the Secretary of the Board and are hereby transferred to and shall redound to the benefit of the Company, and shall become and remain its sole and exclusive property. The Executive agrees to execute any assignment to the Company or its nominee, of the Executive's entire right, title and interest in and to any such discoveries and improvements and to execute any other instruments and documents requisite or desirable in applying for and obtaining patents, trademarks or copyrights, at the expense of the Company, with respect thereto in the United States and in all foreign countries, that may be required by the Company. The Executive further agrees at all times, to cooperate to the extent and in the manner required by the Company, in the prosecution or defense of any patent or copyright claims or any litigation, or other proceeding involving any trade secrets, processes, discoveries or improvements covered by this Agreement, but all necessary expenses thereof shall be paid by the Company. (h) Acknowledgement and Enforcement. The Executive acknowledges and agrees that: (A) the purpose of the foregoing covenants, including without limitation the noncompetition covenants of Sections 9(d) and (e), is to protect the goodwill, trade secrets and other Confidential Information of the Company; (B) because of the nature of the business in which the Cardinal Group is engaged and because of the nature of the Confidential Information to which the Executive has access, the Company would suffer irreparable harm and it would be impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the Cardinal Group in the event the Executive breached any of the covenants of this Section 9; and (C) remedies at law (such as monetary damages) for any breach of the Executive's obligations under this Section 9 would be inadequate. The Executive therefore agrees and consents that if the Executive commits any breach of a covenant under this Section 9 or threatens to commit any such breach, the Company shall have the right (in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other right or remedy that may be available to it) to temporary and permanent injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without posting any bond or other security and without the necessity of proof of actual damage. 13
(i) Any provision of any agreement between the Company (or other member of the Cardinal Group) and the Executive or of any plan, program, policy or practice of the Company (or other member of the Cardinal Group) affecting the Executive, (including, without limitation, any stock option grant agreement, restricted stock agreement and the Restricted Share Unit Award agreement) (collectively, "Plan or Agreement") to the contrary notwithstanding, (x) no covenant or other restriction under any such Plan or Agreement respecting the Executive's conduct (which is sometimes referred to therein as "Triggering Conduct" or "Competitor Triggering Conduct") shall be enforceable, to cause a forfeiture or obligation to pay an amount realized by Executive (or his permitted transferees thereunder) as provided under such Plan or Agreement (a "Forfeiture or Payment"), except as a result of any breach of such covenant or restriction by the Executive prior to the second anniversary of the date on which the Executive's rights under such Plan or Agreement shall have vested (or to the extent of such vesting) (except that the last day of the Restricted Period shall be substituted for such second anniversary (only if the Restricted Period expires before such second anniversary) respecting any grant of restricted stock made to the Executive prior to the Effective Date); and (y) the definition of a "Solicitation" at Section 9(c) and of a "Competitor" at Section 9(e) hereof shall supersede any definition of such conduct that is less beneficial to the Executive under such a covenant or restriction under any such Plan and Agreement. In furtherance thereof, (i) no such covenant or restriction shall be enforceable to cause a Forfeiture or Payment against the Executive (or his permitted transferees) under any Plan or Agreement to the extent that the Executive's rights thereunder vested two or more years prior to the Effective Date, (ii) the Executive shall not be subject to any Forfeiture or Payment under any such Plan or Agreement until he shall have been afforded Due Process (as hereafter defined), and (iii) any such Plan or Agreement entered into after the Effective Date shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 9(i) and to the definition of "Cause" under Section 4(c) hereof unless such Plan or Agreement specifically refers to this Section 9(i) or Section 4(c) as the case may be and specifically states that the provisions of this Section 9(i) or the definition of "Cause" under Section 4(c) shall not apply. "Due Process" shall mean: (A) the Executive has been given not less than 60 days prior written notice of such conduct ("Conduct Notice") by the Board, (B) upon such notice to the Executive, the Executive is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for the purpose of reviewing such conduct, (C) in the good faith opinion of the Board at such meeting and delivery of a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters of the entire membership of the Board (not including the Executive) finding that the Executive is guilty of such conduct, (D) the Executive fails to cure such conduct, if it is capable of cure, on or before the later of the 60th day following the Conduct Notice or the 14th day after delivery of such resolution, and (E) the Company shall promptly pay all professional fees incurred by the Executive to defend such allegation of a breach of such covenant or restriction (unless such three-quarters majority of the Board adopts such resolution in which case the provisions of Section 7 hereof shall govern any subsequent dispute resolution proceedings or settlement of the parties). 10. Successors. (a) This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of the Company shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable 14
by the Executive's legal representatives. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. (b) The Company will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of its business and/or assets to assume expressly and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise. 11. Miscellaneous. (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The parties hereto irrevocably agree to submit to the jurisdiction and venue of the courts of the State of Ohio, in any action or proceeding brought with respect to or in connection with this Agreement. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. (b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: If to the Executive: At the most recent address on file for the Executive at the Company. If to the Company: 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, Ohio 43017 Attention: Chief Legal Officer or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee. (c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. (d) The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such Federal, state, or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation. 15
(e) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Executive or the Company may have hereunder, including, without limitation, the right of the Executive to terminate employment for Good Reason pursuant to Section 4 of this Agreement, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement. (f) From and after the Effective Date, this Agreement shall supersede any other employment, severance or change of control agreement between the parties and any other Plan or agreement with respect to the subject matter hereof. In the case of any conflict between the terms of this Agreement (the "Terms") and the provisions of any such employment, severance or change of control agreement or any other Plan or agreement as in effect from time to time (the "Provisions"), the Executive's rights and the Company's obligations shall be established by whichever of the Terms or Provisions would be more beneficial to the Executive. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and, pursuant to the authorization from its Board of Directors, the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written. Execution Date: February 5, 2004 /s/ Robert D. Walter --------------------- ROBERT D. WALTER CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. Execution Date: February 4, 2004 By: /s/ Anthony J. Rucci ----------------------- Anthony J. Rucci, Executive Vice President & Chief Administrative Officer 16

Exhibit 10.02 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT THIS AGREEMENT, effective as of February 1, 2004 (the "Effective Date") is made and entered into by and between Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), and George L. Fotiades (the "Executive"). WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive are parties to that certain Employment Agreement dated as of November 13, 2002 (the "Prior Agreement"); and WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to set forth in a written agreement the terms and conditions under which the Executive will render services to the Company that will replace and supercede the Prior Agreement from and after the Effective Date. NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows: 1. EMPLOYMENT PERIOD. The Company shall employ, or shall cause one of its subsidiaries or affiliates to employ, the Executive, and the Executive shall serve the Company, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, during the three-year period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the third (3rd) anniversary of the Effective Date, unless prior to such date the employment of the Executive is terminated in accordance with Section 4 of this Agreement (such period, the "Employment Period"). For purposes of this Agreement, any reference to the "Company" shall mean, where appropriate, the actual Cardinal subsidiary or affiliate that employs the Executive. The Employment Period may be extended by mutual written agreement of the parties. The parties hereto agree and acknowledge that the Prior Agreement is and shall be considered terminated and superceded by this Agreement from and after the Effective Date. 2. POSITION AND DUTIES. (a) During the Employment Period, the Executive shall serve as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company, with the duties and responsibilities customarily assigned to such position, and such other duties and responsibilities as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall from time to time assign to the Executive. (b) During the Employment Period, and excluding any periods of vacation and sick leave to which the Executive is entitled under the practices and policies of the Company as in effect from time to time, the Executive shall devote the Executive's full business attention and time to the business and affairs of the Company, and shall use the Executive's reasonable best efforts to carry out such responsibilities faithfully and efficiently. It shall not be considered a violation of the foregoing for the Executive to (A) serve on corporate boards or committees with the prior consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, (B) serve on civic or charitable boards or committees, (C) deliver lectures, fulfill speaking
engagements or teach at educational institutions and (D) manage personal investments, so long as such activities do not materially interfere with the performance of the Executive's responsibilities as an employee of the Company in accordance with this Agreement or violation the provisions of Section 5 of this Agreement. (c) As of the Effective Date, the Executive's services shall be performed primarily at the Company's offices located in Dublin, Ohio. Promptly following the Effective Date, the Executive will establish and maintain his primary residence in the Central Ohio area and will, at a mutually agreed time (which the parties intend to be as soon as practicable), relocate his family and possessions to such primary residence. 3. COMPENSATION. (a) SALARY. During the Employment Period, as compensation for the Executive's services hereunder, the Company shall pay to the Executive an annual base salary (the "Base Salary") at the rate of not less than $725,000, payable at such times and intervals as the Company customarily pays the base salaries of its other executive employees; provided that the Base Salary may be reduced as part of a reduction that applies proportionately to all employees who are otherwise similar to the Executive with respect to amount of compensation and level of managerial responsibility before such reduction. (b) ANNUAL BONUS. In addition to the Base Salary, during the Employment Period the Executive shall be eligible to receive an annual bonus (an "Annual Bonus") determined and paid at the sole discretion of the Company pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Company bonus plan for which the Executive is then eligible, as such plan is in effect from time to time, or any successor thereto (the "Bonus Plan"). The parties hereto agree and acknowledge that the Executive's Annual Bonus target under this Agreement shall be equal to one hundred and sixty percent (160%) of the Base Salary. (c) OPTION GRANT. As of February 1, 2004, the Company shall grant the Executive an option to purchase 225,000 common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "2004 Option") pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in the Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement attached to this Agreement as Exhibit A (the "2004 Option Agreement"). The Executive acknowledges and agrees that he will not be eligible to receive annual grants of options to purchase common shares of the Company during the Company's fiscal 2004 and 2005 years, unless any such grant is authorized by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company. Beginning in the Company's fiscal year 2006, the Executive will be eligible to participate in the Company's annual grant of options pursuant to the Company's then-standard practice for providing such grants to senior executives of the Company. (d) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to receive employee benefits (including, without limitation, medical, life insurance and other welfare benefits and benefits under retirement and savings plans) and vacation to the same extent as, and on the same terms and conditions as, other similarly situated executives of the Company from time to time. -2-
(e) EXPENSES. The Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive during the Employment Period in carrying out the Executive's duties under this Agreement, provided that the Executive complies with the policies, practices and procedures of the Company then applicable to the Executive for submission of expense reports, receipts, or similar documentation of such expenses. (f) RELOCATION BENEFITS. The Company shall provide the Executive with relocation benefits in connection with the relocation referenced in Section 2(c) of this Agreement. Such relocation benefits shall be provided pursuant to the Company's standard relocation policy for similarly situated executives. 4. EMPLOYMENT TERMINATION. (a) TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY. During the Employment Period, the Executive's employment may be terminated by the Company under any of the following circumstances: (i) upon the inability of the Executive to perform the essential functions of his position with or without reasonable accommodation, which inability continues for a consecutive period of 120 days or longer or an aggregate period of 180 days or longer ("Incapacity"), in either instance during the Employment Period; (ii) for "Cause," defined as (A) any willful or grossly negligent conduct by Executive that demonstrably and materially injures the Company; (B) any act by the Executive of fraud or intentional misrepresentation or embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets of the Company or any subsidiary; (C) the Executive being convicted of, confessing to, or becoming the subject of proceedings that provide a reasonable basis for the Company to believe the Executive has engaged in, a felony or any crime involving dishonesty or moral turpitude; (D) the Executive's intentional and repeated violation of the written policies or procedures of the Company; (E) the Executive violating any provision of Section 5 of this Agreement; or (F) the Executive's willful and continued failure for a significant period of time to perform Executive's duties; and (iii) for any other reason (a termination without "Cause"). The Company shall give the Executive notice of termination specifying which of the foregoing provisions is applicable and (in the case of clause (i) or (ii)) the factual basis therefor, and the termination shall be effective upon the 30th day after such notice is given (hereinafter, the date on which the Executive ceases to be an employee of the Company for any reason (including, without limitation, by action of the Executive), whether or not during the Employment Period, is referred to as the "Date of Termination"). (b) TERMINATION BY THE EXECUTIVE. The Executive may terminate his employment during the Employment Period for any reason upon 30 days advanced written notice to the Company. (c) CONSEQUENCES OF TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY WITHOUT CAUSE. (i) If the Executive is terminated by the Company without Cause during the Employment Period, or, (ii) if, in the event of the expiration of the Employment Period, the Executive continues employment with the Company beyond the date of the expiration of the Employment Period (hereinafter defined as the Executive's period of "Employment Continuation"), and under -3-
such circumstances the Executive is terminated without Cause during the Executive's Employment Continuation and prior to the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date, then in either case, the Executive shall not be entitled to any further compensation or benefits provided for under this Agreement except as provided in (x) the 2004 Option Agreement, (y) the option award agreement dated November 18, 2002 and attached as Exhibit A to the Prior Agreement (the "2002 Option Agreement"), and (z) the following sentence. Under such circumstance, the Company shall: (i) pay to the Executive an amount equal to two times the sum of (x) the Executive's Base Salary, at the rate in effect on the day immediately prior to the Date of Termination and (y) the Executive's Annual Bonus target for the fiscal year of the Company in which the Date of Termination occurs, such amount to be paid monthly in equal installments over the twenty-four (24) month period immediately following the Date of Termination; and (ii) provide the vested benefits, if any, required to be paid or provided by law. For the avoidance of doubt, in the event of the Executive's termination without Cause during the Executive's Employment Continuation, the Executive shall only receive severance benefits pursuant to this Section 4(c) if he does not receive severance benefits upon or after the expiration of the Employment Period under this Agreement or otherwise. In addition, notwithstanding anything in the 2004 Option Agreement to the contrary, in the event that the Company terminates the Executive without Cause during the Employment Period following a change in corporate structure or personnel of the Company (or similar event) which results in the Executive ceasing to report directly to Robert D. Walter prior to such termination, the entire 2004 Option shall vest and become exercisable on the Vesting Date set forth on page 1 of the 2004 Option Agreement, and shall remain exercisable thereafter for the remainder of the term of the 2004 Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company's obligations to the Executive under this Section 4(c) shall immediately terminate, and the Executive shall not be entitled to any further compensation or benefits provided for under this Agreement, the 2004 Option Agreement, or the 2002 Option Agreement in the event that the Executive violates any of the provisions of Section 5 of this Agreement. (d) OTHER EMPLOYMENT TERMINATIONS. If, during the Employment Period, the Executive's employment is terminated for any reason other than by the Company without Cause, including, without limitation, termination by the Executive, the Executive's retirement, Incapacity, death, or termination by the Company for Cause (subject only to Section 4(e) of this Agreement), the Executive shall not be entitled to any compensation provided for under this Agreement, other than (i) the Base Salary through the Date of Termination; (ii) benefits under any long-term disability insurance coverage in the case of termination because of Incapacity; (iii) vested benefits, if any, required to be paid or provided by law; and (iv) the benefits, if any, provided for under the Executive's then-outstanding equity incentive awards, including the 2004 Option Agreement and the 2002 Option Agreement. -4-
(e) TERMINATION AFTER A CHANGE OF CONTROL. In the event that during the Employment Period, or during the Executive's Employment Continuation but prior to the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date (i) the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company within one year after a "Change of Control" (as defined in the Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time, or any successor plan thereto) for any reason other than because of the Executive's death, retirement, Incapacity or by the Company for Cause, or (ii) the Executive has experienced a material diminution of his duties under Section 2(a) of this Agreement, other than actions that are not taken in bad faith and are remedied by the Company within ten business days after receipt of written notice thereof from the Executive, and as a result the Executive terminates his employment within one year after a Change of Control (as so defined), then the Company shall pay to the Executive the severance payments and benefits as set forth in Section 4(c) of this Agreement. 5. COVENANTS. (a) INTRODUCTION. The parties acknowledge that the provisions and covenants contained in this Section 5 are ancillary and material to this Agreement, the 2004 Option Agreement, and the 2002 Option Agreement and that the limitations contained herein are reasonable in geographic and temporal scope and do not impose a greater restriction or restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill and other legitimate business interests of the Company. The parties also acknowledge and agree that the provisions of this Section 5 do not adversely affect the Executive's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate the covenants contained herein. The parties further acknowledge and agree that the provisions of Section 11(a) below are accurate and necessary because (i) this Agreement is entered into in the State of Ohio, (ii) Ohio has a substantial relationship to the parties and to this transaction, (iii) Ohio is the headquarters state of the Company, which has operations nationwide and has a compelling interest in having its employees treated uniformly within the United States, (iv) the use of Ohio law provides certainty to the parties in any covenant litigation in the United States, and (v) enforcement of the provision of this Section 5 would not violate any fundamental public policy of Ohio or any other jurisdiction. (b) CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company and all of its subsidiaries, partnerships, joint ventures, limited liability companies, and other affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"), all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Cardinal Group and its businesses (including, without limitation, any proprietary and not publicly available information concerning any processes, methods, trade secrets, research, secret data, costs, names of users or purchasers of their respective products or services, business methods, operating procedures or programs or methods of promotion and sale) that the Executive has obtained or obtains during the Executive's employment by the Cardinal Group and that is not public knowledge (other than as a result of the Executive's violation of this Section 5(b)) ("Confidential Information"). For the purposes of this Section 5(b), information shall not be deemed to be publicly available merely because it is embraced by general disclosures or because individual features or combinations thereof are publicly available. The Executive shall not communicate, divulge or disseminate Confidential Information at any time during or after the -5-
Executive's employment with the Cardinal Group, except with the prior written consent of the Cardinal Group, as applicable, or as otherwise required by law or legal process. All records, files, memoranda, reports, customer lists, drawings, plans, documents and the like that the Executive uses, prepares or comes into contact with during the course of the Executive's employment shall remain the sole property of the Company and/or the Cardinal Group, as applicable, and shall be turned over to the applicable Cardinal Group company upon termination of the Executive's employment. (c) NON-RECRUITMENT OF EMPLOYER'S EMPLOYEES, ETC. Executive shall not, at any time during the Restricted Period (as defined in this Section 5(c)), without the prior written consent of Cardinal Health, Inc., directly or indirectly, contact, solicit, recruit, or employ (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor) any person who was or is at any time during the previous twenty four months an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group. Further, during the Restricted Period, Executive shall not take any action that could reasonably be expected to have the effect of encouraging or inducing any employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group to cease their relationship with the Cardinal Group for any reason. This provision does not apply to recruitment of employees within or for the Cardinal Group. The "Restricted Period" means the period of Executive's employment with the Cardinal Group and the additional period that ends 24 months after the Executive's Date of Termination. (d) NO COMPETITION--SOLICITATION OF BUSINESS. During the Restricted Period, the Executive shall not (either directly or indirectly or as an officer, agent, employee, partner or director of any other company, partnership or entity) solicit, service, or accept on behalf of any competitor of the Cardinal Group the business of (i) any customer of the Cardinal Group at the time of the Executive's employment or Date of Termination, or (ii) potential customer of the Cardinal Group which the Executive knew to be an identified, prospective purchaser of services or products of the Cardinal Group. (e) NO COMPETITION--EMPLOYMENT BY COMPETITOR. During the Restricted Period, the Executive shall not invest in (other than in a publicly traded company with a maximum investment of no more than 1% of outstanding shares), counsel, advise, or be otherwise engaged or employed by, any entity or enterprise that competes with the Cardinal Group, by developing, manufacturing or selling any product or service of a type, respectively, developed, manufactured or sold by the Cardinal Group. (f) NO DISPARAGEMENT. (i) The Executive shall at all times refrain from taking actions or making statements, written or oral, that (A) denigrate, disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of the Cardinal Group or any of its trustees, officers, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, or (B) are intended to, or may be reasonably expected to, adversely affect the morale of the employees of the Cardinal Group. The Executive further agrees not to make any negative statements to third parties relating to the Executive's employment or any aspect of the businesses of the Cardinal Group and not to make any statements to third parties about the circumstances of the termination of -6-
the Executive's employment, or about the Cardinal Group or its trustees, officers, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, except as may be required by a court or governmental body. (ii) The Executive further agrees that, following termination of employment for any reason, the Executive shall assist and cooperate with the Company with regard to any matter or project in which the Executive was involved during the Executive's employment with the Company, including but not limited to any litigation that may be pending or arise after such termination of employment. Further, the Executive agrees to notify the Company at the earliest opportunity of any contact that is made by any third parties concerning any such matter or project. The Company shall not unreasonably request such cooperation of Executive and shall compensate the Executive for any lost wages or expenses associated with such cooperation and assistance. (g) INVENTIONS. All plans, discoveries and improvements, whether patentable or unpatentable, made or devised by the Executive, whether alone or jointly with others, from the date of the Executive's initial employment by the Company and continuing until the end of the Employment Period and any subsequent period when the Executive is employed by the Cardinal Group, relating or pertaining in any way to the Executive's employment with or the business of the Cardinal Group, shall be promptly disclosed in writing to the Chief Executive Officer and are hereby transferred to and shall redound to the benefit of the Company, and shall become and remain its sole and exclusive property. The Executive agrees to execute any assignments to the Company or its nominee, of the Executive's entire right, title and interest in and to any such discoveries and improvements and to execute any other instruments and documents requisite or desirable in applying for and obtaining patents, trademarks or copyrights, at the expense of the Company, with respect thereto in the United States and in all foreign countries, that may be required by the Company. The Executive further agrees, during and after the Employment Period, to cooperate to the extent and in the manner required by the Company, in the prosecution or defense of any patent or copyright claims or any litigation, or other proceeding involving any trade secrets, processes, discoveries or improvements covered by this Agreement, but all necessary expenses thereof shall be paid by the Company. (h) ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND ENFORCEMENT. (i) The Executive acknowledges and agrees that: (A) the purpose of the foregoing covenants, including without limitation the noncompetition covenants of Sections 5(d) and (e), is to protect the goodwill, trade secrets and other Confidential Information of the Company; (B) because of the nature of the business in which the Cardinal Group is engaged and because of the nature of the Confidential Information to which the Executive has access, the Company would suffer irreparable harm and it would be impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the Cardinal Group in the event the Executive breached any of the covenants of this Section 5; and (C) remedies at law (such as monetary damages) for any breach of the Executive's obligations under this Section 5 would be inadequate. The Executive therefore agrees and consents that if the Executive commits any breach of a covenant under this Section 5 or -7-
threatens to commit any such breach, the Company shall have the right (in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other right or remedy that may be available to it) to temporary and permanent injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without posting any bond or other security and without the necessity of proof of actual damage. (ii) In addition, in the event of a violation of this Section 5, the Company shall have the right to require the Executive to pay to the Company all or any portion of the Clawback Amount (as defined below) within 30 days following written notice by the Company to the Executive (the "Company Notice") that it is imposing such requirement. The "Clawback Amount" means the sum of: A. the amount equal to the gross gain realized or obtained by the Executive resulting from the vesting of the restricted stock (the "Additional Incentive Shares") granted to the Executive pursuant to the Restricted Shares Agreement attached as Exhibit A to the Executive's Employment Agreement dated February 9, 2000 (the "2000 Employment Agreement"), measured at the date of vesting (i.e., the market value of the Additional Incentive Shares on the vesting date); B. if (x) the Executive has sold or otherwise disposed of any of the Additional Incentive Shares, an amount equal to the excess of (I) the fair market value thereof on the date of the sale or disposition over (II) the fair market value thereof on the date such shares vested, and if (y) the Executive has not sold or otherwise disposed of the Additional Incentive Shares, an amount equal to the excess of (I) the fair market value thereof on the 30th day following the date of the Company Notice over (II) the fair market value thereof on the date such shares vested; and C. if the Executive has exercised any stock options granted to the Executive by the Cardinal Group under the Cardinal Health, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan within three years before a violation of Section 5(b), 5(c), 5(f) or 5(g) or within one year before a violation of Section 5(d) or 5(e), an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by the Executive or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such stock option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the fair market value of the purchased stock on the date of exercise and the exercise price paid by the Executive therefor). In addition to the foregoing, in the event of a violation of this Section 5, all outstanding stock options granted to the Executive by the Cardinal Group under the Cardinal Health, Inc. Equity Incentive Plan that have not been exercised shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to be exercisable at any time. (iii) With respect to any provision of this Section 5 finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable, the Executive and the Company hereby agree that such court shall have jurisdiction to reform this Agreement or any provision hereof so that it is enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by law, and the parties agree to abide by such court's determination. If any of the covenants of this Section 5 are determined to be wholly or partially unenforceable in any jurisdiction, such determination -8-
shall not be a bar to or in any way diminish the Company's right to enforce any such covenant in any other jurisdiction. 6. NON-EXCLUSIVITY OF RIGHTS. Nothing in this Agreement shall prevent or limit the Executive's continuing or future participation in any plan, program, policy or practice provided by the Cardinal Group for which the Executive may qualify, nor, subject to Section 9 below, shall anything in this Agreement limit or otherwise affect such rights as the Executive may have under any contract or agreement with the Cardinal Group. Vested benefits and other amounts that the Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of, or any contract or agreement with, the Cardinal Group on or after the Date of Termination shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice, program, contract or agreement, as the case may be, except as explicitly modified by this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive waives all of the Executive's rights to receive severance payments and benefits under any severance plan, policy or practice of the Cardinal Group or any entity merged with or into the Cardinal Group (or any part thereof) except to the extent provided for in this Agreement. 7. NO MITIGATION. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and such amounts shall not be reduced, regardless of whether the Executive obtains other employment. 8. NOTICES. (a) METHODS. Each notice, demand, request, consent, report, approval or communication (hereinafter, "Notice") which is or may be required to be given by any party to any other party in connection with this Agreement, shall be in writing, and given by facsimile, personal delivery, receipted delivery services, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, prepaid and properly addressed to the party to be served as shown in Section 8(b) below. (b) ADDRESSES. Notices shall be effective on the date sent via facsimile, the date delivered personally or by receipted delivery service, or three days after the date mailed: If to the Company: Cardinal Health, Inc. 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, OH 43017 Attn.: Chief Legal Officer Facsimile: (614) 757-6948 If to the Executive: At the Executive's residence address most recently on the books and records of the Company. -9-
(c) CHANGES. Each party may designate by Notice to the other in writing, given in the foregoing manner, a new address to which any Notice may thereafter be so given, served or sent. 9. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements with respect thereto, including, without limitation, the Prior Agreement and the 2000 Employment Agreement; provided that it is specifically agreed that references in the 2002 Option Agreement to the Prior Agreement are hereby amended to be references to this Agreement, as may be amended from time to time. 10. SUCCESSORS. (a) EXECUTIVE. This Agreement is personal to the Executive and, without the prior written consent of the Company, shall not be assignable by the Executive otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives. (b) THE COMPANY. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns. (c) The Company may assign this Agreement to any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company that expressly agrees to assume and perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would have been required to perform it if no such assignment had taken place. As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean both the Company as defined above and any such successor that assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement, by operation of law or otherwise. 11. MISCELLANEOUS. (a) GOVERNING LAW. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of Ohio, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives. (b) SEVERABILITY. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in part, the remaining portion of such provision, together with all other provisions of this Agreement, shall remain valid and enforceable and continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent consistent with law. (c) TAX WITHHOLDING. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company may withhold from amounts payable under this Agreement all federal, -10-
state, local and foreign taxes that are required to be withheld by applicable laws or regulations. (d) NO WAIVER. The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of, or to assert any right under, this Agreement shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or of any other provision of or right under this Agreement. (e) WARRANTY. The Executive hereby warrants that the Executive is free to enter into this Agreement and to perform the services described herein. (f) HEADINGS. The Section headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience only and in no manner shall be construed as part of this Agreement. (g) COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument (h) SURVIVAL. The obligations under this Agreement of the Executive and the Company that by their nature and terms require (or may require) satisfaction after the end of the Employment Period shall survive such event and shall remain binding upon such parties. (i) EMPLOYMENT CONTINUATION PERIOD. The parties hereto agree and acknowledge that the Executive shall have no rights to any payments, benefits or otherwise under this Agreement during any period of the Executive's Employment Continuation (as defined in Section 4(c) of this Agreement) other than as specifically set forth in Sections 4(c) and 4(e) of this Agreement. -11-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set his hand and, pursuant to the authorization of the Board of Directors of the Company, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed in its name on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written. EXECUTIVE Execution Date: February 5, 2004 /s/ George L. Fotiades ------------------------------------ George L. Fotiades CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. Execution Date: February 5, 2004 By /s/ Robert D. Walter --------------------------------- Robert D. Walter Chief Executive Officer -12-
Exhibit A CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT Dollars at Work: $ Grant Date: Exercise Price: $[FMV at Grant Date] Vesting Date: [Three years from Grant Date] Expiration Date: [Ten years from Grant Date] Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has granted George L. Fotiades ("Grantee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase 225,000 shares (the "Shares") of common stock in the Company for a total purchase price (typically known as Dollars at Work) of $________ (i.e., the equivalent of $_____ for each full Share). The Option has been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and shall include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this agreement. Capitalized terms used herein which are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This option shall be exercisable at any time on or after __________, (subject to Section 10 of the Plan with respect to acceleration of the vesting of the Option upon a Change of Control), and prior to ____________ (subject to the termination provisions of the Plan and this agreement). By:____________________ Robert D. Walter Chairman and CEO -13-
1. Method of Exercise and Payment of Price (a) Method of Exercise. At any time when the Option is exercisable under the Plan and this agreement, the Option shall be exercised from time to time by written notice to the Company which shall: (i) state the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised; and (ii) if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than the Grantee, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all applicable laws and regulations. (b) Payment of Price. The full exercise price for the Option shall be paid to the Company as provided in the Plan. 2. Transferability. The Option shall be transferable (I) at the Grantee's death, by the Grantee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by the Grantee during the Grantee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces, or nephews of the Grantee, or any other persons sharing the Grantee's household (other than tenants or employees) ("Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of the Grantee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which the Grantee or such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which the Grantee or such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners, provided that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in subitems II(a), (b), or (c), above, with respect to the original Grantee. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Committee") may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than fifty percent of the voting interests are owned by the Grantee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within ten days of any transfer, the Grantee shall notify the Stock Option Administrator of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this agreement, references to the original Grantee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of termination of employment of the Grantee provided in item 3 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Grantee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in item 3. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of the Grantee's termination of employment with the Company for any reason. The conduct prohibited of Grantee in items 5 and 6 hereof -14-
shall continue to be prohibited of Grantee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from the Grantee to the same extent as would have been the case of the Grantee had the Option not been transferred. The Grantee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of items 5 and 6 of this agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 13(d) of the Plan following transfer of the Option. 3. Termination of Relationship. (a) Termination by Death. If the Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Cardinal Group") terminates by reason of death, then, unless otherwise determined by the Committee within sixty days of such death, any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after the 60th day after such death. The Option may thereafter be exercised by any transferee of the Option, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of the Grantee under the will of the Grantee for a period of one year (or such other period as the Committee may specify at or after grant or death) from the date of death or until the expiration of the stated term of the Option, whichever period is shorter. (b) Termination Without Cause Or By Reason Of Disability. For purposes of this agreement, the period beginning on the date the Option first vests and ending on the expiration of the term of the Option is referred to as the "Exercise Period." (i) Disability. If the Grantee's employment by the Cardinal Group terminates by reason of disability (as defined in the Plan) or Incapacity (as defined in the Employment Agreement dated as of February 1, 2004 between the Company and Grantee, as may be amended from time to time (the "Employment Agreement")), then any unvested portion of the Option will vest in accordance with the terms indicated on the first page of this agreement and may thereafter be exercised by the Grantee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the earlier of the fifth anniversary of the date of such disability or Incapacity or the Exercise Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Grantee dies after such disability or Incapacity but before the expiration of the Exercise Period, unless otherwise determined by the Committee within 60 days of such death, any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon the 60th day after such death, and the Option may be exercised by any transferee of the Option, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of the Grantee under the will of the Grantee from and after, the 60th day after such death for a period of one year (or such other period as the Committee may specify at or after grant or death) from the date of death or until the expiration of the Exercise Period, whichever period is shorter. (ii) Termination Without Cause. If the Grantee's employment by the Cardinal Group is terminated without Cause (as used in this agreement, "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in the Employment Agreement), then any vested and unexercised portion of the Option may thereafter be exercised by the Grantee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the expiration of the Exercise Period, and any portion of the Option that is unvested as of the date of -15-
such termination shall be forfeited; provided, however, that if such termination without Cause occurs following a change in corporate structure or personnel of the Company (or similar event) which results in the Executive ceasing to report directly to Robert D. Walter prior to such termination, the remaining unvested portion of the Option shall vest and become exercisable on the Vesting Date, and shall remain exercisable thereafter for the remainder of the Exercise Period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Grantee dies after such termination without Cause but before the expiration of the Exercise Period , unless otherwise determined by the Committee within 60 days of such death, any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon the 60th day after such death, and the Option may be exercised by any transferee of the Option, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of the Grantee under the will of the Grantee from and after the 60th day after such death for a period of one year (or such other period as the Committee may specify at or after grant or death) from the date of death or until the expiration of the Exercise Period, whichever period is shorter. (c) Termination by the Cardinal Group for Cause. If the Grantee's employment by the Cardinal Group is terminated for Cause, all outstanding Options that have not been exercised shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to be exercisable at any time without regard to whether such Options are vested. (d) Other Termination of Employment. If the Grantee's employment by the Cardinal Group terminates for any reason (including, without limitation, Grantee's retirement) other than death, disability, Incapacity or termination by the Company with or without Cause (subject to Section 10 of the Plan regarding acceleration of the vesting of the Option upon a Change of Control), (i) any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of termination will automatically terminate on the date of such termination, and (ii) any portion of the option which has vested as of the date of such termination shall remain exercisable thereafter for the remainder of the Exercise Period. 4. Restrictions on Exercise. The Option is subject to all restrictions in this agreement and/or in the Plan, and is subject to the covenants contained in Section 5 of the Employment Agreement. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Grantee or his transferee or successor to make any representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters (including Grantee's compliance with the terms of items 5 and 6 of this agreement or any employment or severance agreement between any member of the Cardinal Group and the Grantee, including without limitation the terms of Section 5 of the Employment Agreement) reasonably requested by the Company. 5. Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct. As used in this agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the Cardinal Group any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Cardinal Group; violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of any of -16-
the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by the Grantee, directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor) any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the twelve months prior to the termination of Grantee's employment with the Cardinal Group; any action by Grantee and/or his representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers and/or potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Grantee, and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group, including, without limitation, the terms of Section 5 (other than Sections 5(d) and 5(e)) of the Employment Agreement. As used herein, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Grantee's employment or within two years following Grantee's termination of employment with the Cardinal Group, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or in any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Grantee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Grantee's employment with the Cardinal Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. 6. Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules. For so long as Grantee continues as an employee with the Cardinal Group and for three years following Grantee's termination of employment with the Cardinal Group regardless of the reason, Grantee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Grantee engages in such Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Section 5 above, then: (a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and (b) the Grantee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay the Company an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by the Grantee or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the market value of the Option Shares on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Option Shares), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), less $1.00. If Grantee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Grantee's termination of employment with the Cardinal Group, but including any period between the time of Grantee's termination and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. The Grantee may be released from Grantee's obligations under this item 6 only if -17-
the Committee (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this item 6 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. However, this item 6 does prohibit certain conduct while Grantee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this agreement under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the Grantee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Grantee agrees to provide the Company with at least ten days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this item 6 and the Grantee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this agreement shall diminish, negate, or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Grantee may be a party, including but not limited to any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies. Grantee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this item 6 are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Grantee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Grantee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Grantee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Grantee, and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Grantee without including this item 6. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in items 5 and 6 are material provisions to and part of an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made. 7. Right of Set-Off. By accepting this Option, the Grantee consents to a deduction from and set-off against any amounts owed to the Grantee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including but not limited to amounts owed to the Grantee as wages, severance payments, or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by the Grantee under this agreement. 8. Governing Law/Venue. This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the Option and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Grantee acknowledges that the covenants contained in items 5 and 6 of this agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect the Grantee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Grantee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and -18-
irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of item 5 or 6 of this agreement, the Company shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, and Grantee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Company hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Company to institute legal proceedings under this agreement, Grantee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this agreement. 9. Action by the Committee. The parties agree that the interpretation of this agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the good faith province and discretion of the Committee. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Committee with regard to the interpretation of this agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this agreement. The Committee may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Committee (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Committee or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, or such other material as the Committee or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Committee or its designee and that any decision of the Committee or its designee relating to this agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious. -19-
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT The Grantee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; and (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this agreement and the Option granted to him under this agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this agreement. The Grantee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent Annual Report and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders and a copy of the Plan Description dated November 17, 2003 pertaining to the Plan. ---------------------------------- Signature ---------------------------------- Print Name ---------------------------------- Grantee's Social Security Number ---------------------------------- -20-


