FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20040928161217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): SEPTEMBER 27, 2004 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) OHIO (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-11373 31-0958666 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification Number) 7000 CARDINAL PLACE, DUBLIN, OHIO 43017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code) (614) 757-5000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.05 COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXIT OR DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") recently announced the initiation of a formal program to review aspects of its current operating structure and future strategic directions regarding certain corporate initiatives, including utilization of shared services and strategic sourcing initiatives. The overall goal of this review is to achieve cost savings in the fiscal year ending June 30, 2005 ("fiscal 2005") and position the Company for growth in the future. In conjunction with this review, the Company will incur costs to restructure or exit certain business activities. It is expected that these costs will be incurred in each of the Company's business segments. These costs will include one-time termination benefits, asset impairments and various costs to exit or move facilities. Due to the early stage of evaluation of the various initiatives to be undertaken as part of this restructuring, the Company is unable to provide a reasonable estimate of the range of expenses it expects to incur in total or by category. On September 27, 2004, the first phase of this project was approved by the Company's management. The costs consist of one-time termination and other related benefits to be paid to employees within the Company's Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment associated with the elimination of certain positions. The total cost of this activity is estimated to be approximately $19.0 million and is expected to be incurred primarily in the first and second quarters of fiscal 2005. ITEM 5.04 TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF TRADING UNDER REGISTRANT'S EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PLANS On September 28, 2004, the Company sent a notice to directors and executive officers of the Company informing them that a blackout period with respect to certain of the Company's employee benefit plans will be in effect beginning on September 27, 2004 and is expected to continue until such time as the Company has filed its Form 10-K. The Company's goal is to file its Form 10-K by late October 2004. The Company provided the notice to its directors and executive officers in accordance with Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Regulation BTR. The Company also has advised participants in the plans of the blackout period. The Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors determined that the Company was unable to give advance notice of the blackout period to the directors and executive officers due to circumstances that were beyond the Company's reasonable control. A copy of the notice is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.01 and is incorporated herein by reference. During the blackout period referenced in the notice, and for two years after the ending date of the blackout period, security holders and other interested persons may obtain, without charge, the actual beginning and ending dates of the blackout period by contacting the individuals identified in the notice. ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE On September 27, 2004, the Company issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.02, which is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits 99.01 Notice of Blackout Period to Directors and Executive Officers of the Company. 99.02 Press release issued by the Company on September 27, 2004. -2-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Cardinal Health, Inc. (Registrant) Date: September 28, 2004 By: /s/ Paul S. Williams --------------------- Name: Paul S. Williams Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary -3-
EXHIBIT INDEX 99.01 Notice of Blackout Period to Directors and Executive Officers of the Company. 99.02 Press release issued by the Company on September 27, 2004. -4-

Exhibit 99.01 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. SARBANES-OXLEY BLACKOUT NOTICE TO DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS SUBJECT TO SECTION 306(a)(1) OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 EFFECTIVE SEPTEMBER 27, 2004 FUTURE CARDINAL HEALTH STOCK FUND INVESTMENTS. On and after September 27, 2004, and until further notice, no future investments may be made in the Cardinal Health Stock Fund ("Stock Fund") under any of the individual account employee benefit plans sponsored by Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company"). The affected plans include the Cardinal Health Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan, the Cardinal Health Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan for PRN Employees, the Syncor International Corporation Employee Savings and Stock Ownership Plan, the Cardinal Health Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan for Puerto Rico Employees and the Cardinal Health Deferred Compensation Plan (each, a "Plan" and collectively, the "Plans"). This suspension of future investments into the Stock Fund in any of the Plans is effective with respect both to the investment of new contributions and to transfers from other Plan investment options. The period during which participants in the Plans will be unable to exercise these rights otherwise available under the Plans is called a "Blackout Period." PLEASE NOTE THAT YOU MAY OTHERWISE INVEST CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRANSFERS IN ANY OTHER INVESTMENT OPTION AVAILABLE UNDER THE PLANS. REASON FOR THE BLACKOUT PERIOD. As announced in a press release on September 27, 2004, the filing of the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 will be delayed to provide additional time for its Audit Committee to complete an investigation of certain matters related to its ongoing internal review. Pending satisfactory review of these matters, Cardinal Health's goal is to file its Form 10-K by late October. The suspension of new investments in the Stock Fund in each of the Plans is expected to end when the Form 10-K filing requirement has been satisfied. IMPACT OF THE BLACKOUT PERIOD. In addition to and as a result of the unavailability of new investments in the Stock Fund, you will be temporarily unable to diversify investments in your individual Plan account using the Stock Fund. In addition, it is unlawful under Section 306(a)(1) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for any director or executive officer of the Company, directly or indirectly, to purchase, sell or otherwise acquire or transfer any equity security of the Company during any blackout period with respect to such equity security, if such director or executive officer acquires or previously acquired such equity security in connection with his or her service or employment as a director or executive officer. DURATION OF THE BLACKOUT PERIOD. The Blackout Period begins on September 27, 2004 and is expected to continue until such time as the Company has filed its Form 10-K. Cardinal Health's goal is to file its Form 10-K by late October. You will be notified when the Blackout Period ends. A copy of the determination of the Company that this notice could not be provided in advance due to circumstances that were beyond the reasonable control of the Company is
attached. CONTACT INFORMATION. If you have any questions concerning this notice, you should contact the Company's Chief Legal Officer at (614) 757-5000. Cardinal Health is located at 7000 Cardinal Place, Dublin, Ohio 43017.

Exhibit 99.02 [Cardinal Health Logo] 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, OH 43017 www.cardinal.com FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACTS: Media: Jim Mazzola Investors: Jim Hinrichs (614) 757-3690 (614) 757-7828 jim.mazzola@cardinal.com jim.hinrichs@cardinal.com CARDINAL HEALTH FORM 10-K FILING DELAYED DUBLIN, OHIO, SEPT. 27, 2004 - Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH), announced today that the filing of its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30 will be delayed to provide additional time for its Audit Committee to complete an investigation of certain matters related to its ongoing internal review. Pending satisfactory review of these matters, the company's goal is to file its Form 10-K by late October. These matters are not expected to change the guidance Cardinal Health provided on June 30 for its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2004 or the outlook it provided for fiscal year 2005 on Sept. 13. As a result of the delay in its Form 10-K filing, Cardinal Health intends to postpone its annual meeting of shareholders from Nov. 3 to a date as soon as possible following the filing of its Form 10-K. As previously reported, in October 2003, the SEC initiated an informal inquiry regarding Cardinal Health seeking historical financial and related information. In May, the company was notified that the SEC had converted the informal inquiry into a formal investigation. In June, as part of the SEC's formal investigation, Cardinal Health received an SEC subpoena that included a request for the production of documents relating to revenue classification, and the methods used for such classification, in the company's Pharmaceutical Distribution business as either "Operating Revenues" or "Bulk Deliveries to Customer Warehouses and Other." In addition, the company learned that the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York had also commenced an inquiry that the company understands relates to the revenue classification issue. Cardinal Health continues to respond to the investigations by providing all information required. ABOUT CARDINAL HEALTH Cardinal Health, Inc. (www.cardinal.com) is the leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry. Cardinal Health develops, manufactures, packages and markets products for patient care; develops drug-delivery technologies; distributes pharmaceuticals and medical, surgical and laboratory supplies; and offers
CARDINAL HEALTH FORM 10-K FILING DELAYED PAGE 2 consulting and other services that improve quality and efficiency in health care. Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health employs more than 55,000 people on six continents and produces annual revenues of more than $50 billion. Cardinal Health is ranked No.17 on the current Fortune 500 list and named one of the best U.S. companies by Forbes magazine for 2004. Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form 10-Q reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the costs, difficulties, and uncertainties related to the integration of acquired businesses, the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships, changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services, the results, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings, and general economic and market conditions. Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.


