FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20040727092424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): JULY 26, 2004 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) OHIO (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-11373 31-0958666 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification Number) 7000 CARDINAL PLACE, DUBLIN, OHIO 43017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code) (614) 757-5000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE On July 27, 2004, Cardinal Health, Inc. released the information regarding forward-looking statements attached hereto as Exhibit 99.02, which is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits The following is furnished as an exhibit hereto: 99.01 Press Release issued by the Registrant on July 26, 2004. (1) The following is filed as an exhibit hereto: 99.02 Information regarding forward-looking statements released by the Registrant on July 27, 2004. (2) - ---------- (1) Exhibit 99.01 is intended to be furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). (2) Exhibit 99.02 is intended to be "filed" and incorporated by reference in filings under the Securities Act. ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE The information set forth under this "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure" is intended to be furnished and such information, including the Exhibit 99.01 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act. On July 26, 2004, Cardinal Health, Inc. issued the press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99.01, which is incorporated herein by reference. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Cardinal Health, Inc. (Registrant) Date: July 27, 2004 By: /s/ Paul S. Williams --------------------- Name: Paul S. Williams Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary -2-
EXHIBIT INDEX 99.01 Press Release issued by the Registrant on July 26, 2004. 99.02 Information regarding forward-looking statements released by the Registrant on July 27, 2004. -3-

Exhibit 99.01 [Cardinal Health Logo] 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, OH 43017 www.cardinal.com FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACTS: Media: Jim Mazzola Investors: Jim Hinrichs (614) 757-3690 (614) 757-7828 jim.mazzola@cardinal.com jim.hinrichs@cardinal.com CARDINAL HEALTH ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF J. MICHAEL LOSH AS CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Replaces Richard J. Miller as CFO, Company Updates Timing of Fiscal 2004 Earnings Release DUBLIN, OHIO, JULY 26, 2004 - Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) announced today the appointment of J. Michael Losh as the company's chief financial officer. Mr. Losh replaces Richard J. Miller who resigned after serving as the company's CFO since 1998. Following a 36-year career at General Motors, Mr. Losh retired as GM's CFO and executive vice president in 2000. Mr. Losh will continue as a member of the Cardinal Health Board of Directors while in this interim position. The company also updated its timetable for the release of its Fiscal 2004 financial results. Cardinal Health is currently targeting this release in late August or early September, which will permit Mr. Losh, working with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, to complete his review of those results in an orderly fashion. The company also expects that it will file its Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2004 on a timely basis. The company continues to believe in the strength of the healthcare market, its strong position and ample resources and remains confident in its performance and growth rates for Fiscal 2004 and future periods. Robert D. Walter, Cardinal Health's chairman and chief executive officer, stated: "Mike Losh's hands-on experience in providing financial and accounting leadership as the CFO of General Motors, combined with his familiarity with Cardinal Health and its businesses as an active member of our Board of Directors over the last 8 years, will be extremely valuable. I believe that with his unique experience and his commitment to assume the CFO role on a full-time basis, Mike will be able to have an immediate impact." In submitting his resignation, Mr. Miller said: "I have served Cardinal Health to the best of my abilities over the past ten years, and I have been proud to be associated with this company. Certain financial reporting practices and judgments that occurred during my tenure as CFO have come under scrutiny in the ongoing investigations. I now believe it is in the best interests of the company for me to step aside as CFO. This will facilitate an orderly transition to new leadership. I will help Mike Losh in whatever way I can." Mr. Miller has agreed to the company's request that he provide assistance to Mr. Losh and the company in an advisory capacity during the transition period but he will not be involved in preparing the company's financial statements or SEC filings. -more-
CARDINAL HEALTH ANNOUNCES APPOINTMENT OF J. MICHAEL LOSH AS CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PAGE 2 Mr. Walter conveyed thanks to Mr. Miller, on behalf of Cardinal Health, for his years of service and for his assistance during the transition. As previously disclosed, there is an ongoing inquiry by Cardinal Health's Audit Committee and its independent counsel regarding certain financial reporting and accounting matters. There are also pending investigations by the SEC and the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York. Cardinal Health continues to respond to these inquiries and provide all information required. #### About Cardinal Health Cardinal Health, Inc. (www.cardinal.com) is the leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry. Cardinal Health develops, manufactures, packages and markets products for patient care; develops drug-delivery technologies; distributes pharmaceuticals, medical, surgical and laboratory supplies; and offers consulting and other services that improve quality and efficiency in health care. Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health employs more than 50,000 people on six continents and produces annual revenues of more than $50 billion. Cardinal Health is ranked No. 17 on the 2004 Fortune 500 list and was named one of the best U.S. companies by Forbes magazine for 2004. Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form 10-Q reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the results, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings. Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.

Exhibit 99.02 The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended (the "Act"), provides a "safe harbor" for "forward-looking statements" (as defined in the Act). The Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Annual Report to Shareholders, Forms 10-Q and Forms 8-K (along with any exhibits to such filings as well as any amendments to such filings), press releases, other written or oral statements made by or on behalf of the Company, may include, reference or incorporate by reference forward-looking statements which reflect the Company's current view (as of the date such forward-looking statement is made) with respect to future events, prospects, projections or financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated, projected, anticipated or implied by these forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: - - uncertainties relating to general economic, business, regulatory and market conditions; - - the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships, such as pharmaceutical and medical/surgical manufacturers for which alternative supplies may not be available or easily replaceable, or unfavorable changes to the terms of those relationships; - - uncertainties related to the timing and ultimate success of the Company's Pharmaceutical Distribution business model transition from a "buy and hold" inventory investment model to a "just-in-time" fee-for-service model with regard to the pharmaceutical distribution services it provides for manufacturers; - - challenges associated with integrating our information systems with those of our customers and/or suppliers; - - potential liabilities associated with warranties of our information systems, and the malfunction or failure of our information systems or those of third parties with whom we do business, such as malfunctions or failures associated with date-related issues, incompatible software, improper coding and disruption to internet-related operations; - - the costs, difficulties, and uncertainties related to the integration of recently acquired businesses, including liabilities related to the operations or activities of such businesses prior to their acquisition; - - changes to the presentation of financial results and position resulting from adoption of new accounting principles or upon the advice of our independent auditors or the staff of the SEC; - - changes in the distribution or outsourcing pattern for pharmaceutical and medical/surgical products and services, including an increase in direct distribution or a decrease in contract packaging by pharmaceutical manufacturers; - - changes in government regulations or our failure to comply with those regulations or other applicable laws; - - the results, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority and any related legal and administrative proceedings, which may include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings against the Company and/or current or former Company officers or employees, the imposition of fines and penalties, suspensions or debarments from government contracting, and/or other remedies and sanctions; - - the costs and effects of commercial disputes, shareholder claims, derivative claims or other legal proceedings; - - injury to person or property resulting from our manufacturing, packaging, repackaging, drug delivery system development and manufacturing, information systems, or pharmacy management services; - - competitive factors in our healthcare service businesses, including pricing pressures; - - unforeseen changes in our existing agency and distribution arrangements;
- - the continued financial viability and success of our customers, suppliers, and franchisees; - - difficulties encountered by our competitors, whether or not we face the same or similar issues; - - technological developments and products offered by competitors; - - failure to retain or continue to attract senior management or key personnel; - - uncertainties related to successful transitions in senior management positions; - - risks associated with international operations, including fluctuations in currency exchange ratios; - - costs associated with protecting our trade secrets and enforcing our patent, copyright and trademark rights, and successful challenges to the validity of our patents, copyrights or trademarks; - - difficulties or delays in the development, production, manufacturing, and marketing of new products and services, including difficulties or delays associated with obtaining requisite regulatory consents or approvals associated with those activities; - - strikes or other labor disruptions; - - labor, pension and employee benefit costs; - - pharmaceutical and medical/surgical manufacturers' pricing policies and overall drug price inflation; - - changes in hospital buying groups or hospital buying practices; and - - other factors described in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or the other documents we file with the SEC. The words "believe", "expect", "anticipate", "project", and similar expressions identify "forward-looking statements", which speak only as of the date the statement was made. The Company undertakes no obligation (nor does it intend) to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent required under applicable law.


