FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20050415163454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): APRIL 13, 2005 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) OHIO (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) 1-11373 31-0958666 (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification Number) 7000 CARDINAL PLACE, DUBLIN, OHIO 43017 (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code) (614) 757-5000 (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT On April 13, 2005, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company"), acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, appointed Jeffrey W. Henderson as the Company's Executive Vice President and, effective May 15, 2005, the Company's Chief Financial Officer. The offer letter setting forth Mr. Henderson's compensatory arrangements is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.01. The material terms of Mr. Henderson's compensatory arrangements are summarized in Item 5.02(c) below. ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS (c) On April 13, 2005, the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, appointed Jeffrey W. Henderson as the Company's Executive Vice President and, effective May 15, 2005, the Company's Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Henderson will join the Company on April 18, 2005 as Executive Vice President, and will assume the duties of, and will be designated as, the Chief Financial Officer effective as of May 15, 2005. The Company's current Chief Financial Officer on an interim basis, J. Michael Losh, will continue to serve as Chief Financial Officer through May 15th after which date, Mr. Losh will no longer be an executive officer of the Company but will continue to serve as a director of the Company. Mr. Henderson, age 40, previously was employed by Eli Lilly and Company since October 1998. From July 2003 until leaving Eli Lilly, Mr. Henderson served as President and General Manager of the company's subsidiary, Eli Lilly Canada, Inc. From January 2000 to July 2003, Mr. Henderson served as Vice President and Corporate Controller of Eli Lilly. From October 1998 to January 2000, Mr. Henderson served as Vice President and Corporate Treasurer of Eli Lilly. Eli Lilly is a pharmaceutical company that has a business relationship with the Company. The material terms of Mr. Henderson's compensatory arrangements with the Company are summarized below, which description is qualified by reference to the offer letter filed with this report as Exhibit 10.01. Mr. Henderson will receive an annual base salary of $550,000, which will be reviewed annually with the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors. Mr. Henderson also will receive a cash sign-on bonus equal to the value of 3,000 common shares as of his start date, which must be repaid if he voluntarily resigns from his employment with the Company within one year after his start date. Mr. Henderson will be eligible to participate in the Company's Management Incentive Program at an incentive target of 100% of his base salary. Mr. Henderson's bonus for fiscal year 2005 will be guaranteed at his incentive target, pro-rated based on his start date. Mr. Henderson's bonus for fiscal year 2006 will be guaranteed at 50% of his incentive target. Mr. Henderson also will receive the following equity award grants, effective as of his start date with the Company, under the Company's Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Equity Incentive Plan"): o A stock option to purchase 60,000 common shares representing both a prorated grant award for fiscal year 2005 and the award Mr. Henderson would have been eligible to receive in the Company's fiscal year 2006 annual grant. The option will become exercisable in four equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date and will have a term -2-
of seven years. The option will have an exercise price equal to the market price of the Company's common shares on the date of grant. o An award of 9,000 Restricted Share Units ("RSUs") representing both a prorated grant award for fiscal year 2005 and the award Mr. Henderson would have been eligible to receive in the Company's fiscal year 2006 annual grant. The restrictions on the RSUs will lapse in three equal annual installments beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date. The RSUs will be payable solely in common shares on a date at least six months following Mr. Henderson's separation from the Company. o An additional award of 12,000 RSUs. The restrictions on the RSUs will lapse in full on the third anniversary of the grant date. The RSUs will be payable solely in common shares on a date at least six months following Mr. Henderson's separation from the Company. o An additional stock option to purchase a number of common shares equal to the Black-Scholes present value of $1.8 million less the value of the 12,000 RSUs described above and the value of his sign-on bonus described above. The option will become exercisable in full on the third anniversary of the grant date and will have a term of ten years. The option will have an exercise price equal to the market price of the Company's common shares on the date of grant. If Mr. Henderson's employment is involuntarily terminated without cause within the first three years of his start date, the Company will provide him with severance benefits equal to 12 months of his starting base salary. Additionally, if within 60 days following the 18-month anniversary of Mr. Henderson's start date, he provides 60 days notice of his voluntary resignation from employment with the Company, and so long as at the time the Company receives such notice and for the 60-day period thereafter, the Company does not have grounds to terminate Mr. Henderson's employment for gross misconduct, then he will be entitled to receive the following: o A cash payment equal to two times the sum of his starting base salary and incentive target, which will be paid to Mr. Henderson in equal monthly installments over a period of 12 months; provided, however, that if Mr. Henderson discloses or uses in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of the duties assigned to him by the Company any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during this 12-month payout period, any installment of this cash payment already paid out to Mr. Henderson would be repayable by him to the Company and he will forfeit any future installments due him under this provision; o An additional cash payment equal to 50% of his starting incentive target, which will be paid to Mr. Henderson in full upon his resignation date; and o 100% vesting of the RSU grants described above to occur upon his resignation date. The RSU grants will be payable per their terms at least six months after Mr. Henderson's separation from the Company. If the severance payments above are ever deemed to be covered by the recently adopted deferred compensation tax rules (as provided for under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended), the offer letter states that it may be necessary for the Company to delay commencing Mr. Henderson's severance payments until after the six month anniversary of termination of his employment. -3-
Mr. Henderson will be eligible to participate in the Company's 401(k) Savings Plan and Deferred Compensation Plan on the same terms offered to all plan participants, including Company match and profit share contribution. He also will be eligible for health, welfare and stock purchase plan benefits on the same terms generally available to Company employees. Mr. Henderson will be eligible for the Company's executive relocation program, and may receive additional compensation in connection with his transition to the Company, including tax equalization benefits, repatriation commitments and lease and commuting expenses, including use of company aircraft. ITEM 7.01 REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE In connection with the appointment of a new principal officer, the Company issued a press release on April 14, 2005, which is being furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this report. ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS (c) Exhibits 10.01 Letter providing terms of offer of employment, executed by the Company on April 13, 2005, and confirmed by Jeffrey W. Henderson on April 13, 2005. 99.01 Press release issued by the Company on April 14, 2005, and furnished with this report. SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Cardinal Health, Inc. (Registrant) Date: April 15, 2005 By: /s/ Paul S. Williams --------------------- Name: Paul S. Williams Title: Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary -4-
EXHIBIT INDEX 10.01 Letter providing terms of offer of employment, executed by the Company on April 13, 2005, and confirmed by Jeffrey W. Henderson on April 13, 2005. 99.01 Press release issued by the Company on April 14, 2005, and furnished with this report. -5-

Exhibit 10.01 April 13, 2005 Dear Jeff, It is with great pleasure that I confirm in writing our offer of employment to you. All of us who have met with you enthusiastically believe you represent an exceptional fit with Cardinal Health and a superb addition to the executive management team. The major provisions of your offer are: 1. The position is Executive Vice President, effective as of your start date, and Chief Financial Officer, effective as of May 15, 2005, reporting directly to me. You will also serve on the Executive Committee of Cardinal Health and the CEO Strategy Committee. 2. Your initial annual base salary will be $550,000, and your cash compensation profile will be reviewed along with all other officers of Cardinal Health at regular annual intervals with the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (Compensation Committee). 3. You will be eligible to participate in our Management Incentive Plan (MIP). Your target annual incentive will be 100% of your base salary. Your incentive for the remainder of fiscal year 2005 (ending June 30, 2005) will be guaranteed at target, prorated for your start date through the end of this fiscal year. In addition, we will guarantee 50% of your target bonus amount for fiscal year 2006. 4. You will receive a stock option grant along with a grant of Restricted Share Units (RSU's), which represents both a prorated grant for fiscal year 2005 and a pull-forward grant for fiscal year 2006, which you would have been eligible to receive in August, 2005. You will be granted, effective on your start date, a grant of 60,000 option shares, along with a grant of 9,000 RSU's. The 60,000 options will vest in four equal annual installments of 25% each year immediately following the grant date, and will expire on the anniversary of the grant date in 2012. The 9,000 RSU's will vest in three equal annual installments of 33.3% each year immediately following the grant date. In addition, you will receive on your start date: o 12,000 Restricted Share Units, with a three-year cliff vesting. o The cash value of 3,000 Cardinal Health shares on your start date. If you voluntarily resign from Cardinal Health within your first year of employment, the value of this award would be repayable by you to the Company. o An additional option grant, with a three-year cliff vesting, whose Black-Scholes present value shall be the remainder of the total value of the above two awards subtracted from $1.8 million. This option will expire on the anniversary of the grant date in 2015. All of the options listed above will be granted at the price of Cardinal Health stock at the close of market on your start date. All of the above RSUs will be payable at least six months after your separation from Cardinal Health. You will be eligible for the next regular annual grant of stock or stock options in fiscal year 2007, expected to be granted in August, 2006.
Mr. Jeff Henderson April 13, 2005 Page Two 5. You are eligible to participate in the Cardinal Health Profit Sharing, Retirement and Savings Plan (including a 401(k) feature) on the first day of the month following one full calendar month of employment (provided you work 20 hours a week or more). You may contribute up to 50% of your pre-tax earnings to the Plan (subject to IRS maximum). Cardinal Health matches employee contributions at a rate equal to 100% for each dollar contributed up to 3% of pay and then 50% on the next 2% of pay. In addition, the Company has an annual defined contribution of 3%. Employees are immediately 100% vested in matching contributions and 100% vested in the defined contributions after three years of continuous service. Enrollment information will be sent to you by our Plan administrator, prior to your eligibility date. 6. You will be eligible to participate in the Cardinal Health Deferred Compensation Plan (Non-Qualified Plan) that complements our 401(k) Plan and enables the highly compensated employee to continue to save over and above the IRS limits in the 401(k) qualified plan. You may contribute up to 20 percent of your total eligible compensation. Cardinal Health matches dollar for dollar on the first 3 percent and 50 cents on the next 2 percent of salary deferred between $210,000 and $310,000. These matching dollars vest immediately. The Company also contributes a 3 percent annual contribution for eligible compensation earned between $210,000 and $310,000. In addition, the Company provides a social security integration contribution of 3 percent for eligible compensation between $90,000 and $310,000. These 3 percent company contributions vest after 3 years of service. 7. You will be eligible to participate in the Cardinal Health Employee Stock Purchase Plan at the beginning of the next offering period under the terms specified in the Plan. You have the opportunity to purchase Cardinal Health stock at a 15% discount through after-tax payroll deductions. There are two offering periods each year, January - June and July - December. Enrollment information will be provided to you prior to the next eligible offering period after your employment date. 8. You will be eligible for participation in our group benefits program on your date of hire. This program includes coverage for medical, dental, vision, life insurance, accidental death and dismemberment, short-term and long-term disability. 9. Your first day of employment will be mutually agreed to upon acceptance of this offer. 10. Consistent with our policies for all Cardinal Health personnel and the special consideration of our industry, this offer is contingent upon the taking of a company-paid drug screening test, as well as background check, the results of which must be negative and received prior to the above start date. 11. If your employment is involuntarily terminated without cause within the first three years of your start date, the Company will provide you with severance equal to twelve months of your starting base salary. Additionally, if within 60 days following the 18-month anniversary of your start date you provide 60 days notice of your voluntary resignation from Cardinal Health, and so long as at the time Cardinal Health receives such notice and for the 60-day period thereafter, Cardinal Health does not have grounds to terminate your employment for gross misconduct, then you will receive the following: o A cash payment equal to two times (2X) the sum of your starting annual base salary and annual target bonus, which will be paid to you in equal monthly installments over a period of 12 months; provided, however, that if you disclose or use in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the Company any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during this 12-month payout period, any installment of this cash payment already paid out to you would be repayable by you to the Company and you will forfeit any future installments due to you under this provision; o An additional cash payment equal to 50% of your starting annual target bonus, which will be paid to you in full upon your resignation date; and o 100% vesting of the RSU grants specified in paragraph 4 above, which will occur upon your resignation date. The RSU grants will be payable per their terms at least six months after your separation from Cardinal Health.
Mr. Jeff Henderson April 13, 2005 Page Three If the severance payments above are ever deemed to be covered by recently adopted deferred compensation tax rules (Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code), it may be necessary for Cardinal Health to delay commencing your severance payments until after the six month anniversary of your termination of employment. 12. You will be eligible for the Company's executive relocation program, which will be forwarded to you as soon as possible. 13. We will continue to review additional compensation-related issues associated with your transition: tax equalization, lease commitment, repatriation commitments and commuting expenses. 14. Your employment with Cardinal Health is terminable with or without notice at the will of either you or the Company at any time for any reason. There shall be no contract, express or implied, of employment. 15. This offer is subject to formal approval by the Compensation and Executive Committees of our Board of Directors. Jeff, I understand you may have some follow up questions once you have had the opportunity to review the details of this offer. Please feel free to call Tony Rucci or me to discuss any specific questions on the offer. Sincerely, /s/ Robert D. Walter Robert D. Walter Chairman and Chief Executive Officer cc: Tony Rucci Carole Watkins I accept the above offer of employment: /s/ Jeff Henderson 4/13/05 - ------------------------------------- -------------------------- Jeff Henderson Date

Exhibit 99.01 [Cardinal Health Logo] 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, OH 43017 FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACTS: Media: Jim Mazzola Investors: Jim Hinrichs (614) 757-3690 (614) 757-7828 jim.mazzola@cardinal.com jim.hinrichs@cardinal.com JEFFREY W. HENDERSON TO BECOME CARDINAL HEALTH CFO HENDERSON TO SUCCEED INTERIM CFO J. MICHAEL LOSH, WHO CONTINUES AS DIRECTOR DUBLIN, OHIO, APRIL 14, 2005 - Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH), the leading provider of products and services supporting the health-care industry, today announced that Jeffrey W. Henderson will join the company as executive vice president and chief financial officer, succeeding interim CFO J. Michael Losh. Henderson, 40, was most recently president and general manager of Eli Lilly Canada Inc. and previously vice president and corporate controller of Eli Lilly & Co. He will join Cardinal Health on April 18 to work with Losh before assuming the CFO position on May 15. Losh will remain on the company's board of directors. "Jeff brings a wealth of leadership experience to Cardinal Health, including uncompromising standards for business and fiscal management and a passion for achieving the high goals he establishes," said Robert D. Walter, chairman and CEO of Cardinal Health. "Jeff mirrors the same exemplary qualities and expertise as Mike Losh, whom we thank for his service as interim CFO these past nine months. I'm pleased that Mike will continue to contribute to Cardinal Health through his position on our board of directors." Henderson will report to Walter. Losh, who retired as CFO of General Motors Corp., has served in his interim role since late July. Since 2003, Henderson served as head of Lilly's Canadian unit. From 2000 to 2003, he was vice president and corporate controller of Eli Lilly & Co. He joined Lilly in 1998 as vice president and corporate treasurer, based at the company's headquarters in Indianapolis, Ind. Previously, for 10 years he held positions at General Motors Corp., including executive and managerial posts in Great Britain, Singapore, New York and Canada. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in electrical engineering from Kettering University, Flint, Mich., and his Master of Business Administration degree from Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration. Henderson is a native of St. Catharines, Ontario, Canada. -more-
ABOUT CARDINAL HEALTH Cardinal Health, Inc. (www.cardinalhealth.com) is the leading provider of products and services supporting the health care industry. Cardinal Health develops, manufactures, packages and markets products for patient care; develops drug-delivery technologies; distributes pharmaceuticals, medical- surgical and laboratory supplies; and offers consulting and other services that improve quality and efficiency in health care. Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health employs more than 55,000 people on six continents and produces annual revenues of more than $65 billion. # # #


