FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20051026085118.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     The information set forth under this "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished and such information, including the exhibits furnished under this report, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     On October 26, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.01.
     Furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.02 is a discussion of the reasons why management believes that presenting results that exclude the impact of special items and equity compensation expense provides a useful representation of the Company's current performance and trends.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.01
 
7000 Cardinal Place Dublin,OH 43017
www.cardinalhealth.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Cardinal Health, Inc., the leading provider of products and services supporting the health-care industry, announced today first-quarter results that reflect strong customer demand for the company's products and services, and solid earnings that were enhanced by ongoing programs to strengthen its operations.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Oct. 26, 2005
Revenue for the quarter ended Sept. 30 rose 9 percent to $19.4 billion from $17.8 billion in the prior year and operating earnings grew 3 percent to $372 million from $362 million. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations grew 6 percent to $0.54 from $0.51. The following table summarizes operating earnings, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, special items, non-recurring and other items, and equity compensation expenses for Cardinal Health's first quarter and first quarter of the prior year.
"Our first-quarter results build on the momentum we had exiting fiscal 2005 with another quarter of solid execution in pharmaceutical distribution, medical products and services, and clinical technologies and services," said Robert D. Walter, chairman and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. "While we are disappointed in the results of our
 
Cardinal Health First-Quarter Results Reflect Strong Demand, Continued Earnings Improvement Page 2
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, the actions we have taken will result in substantial improvements to that segment during the second quarter and for the balance of the year. Across the company, we also continued to be disciplined in expense control while making necessary investments to strengthen and integrate our businesses for the long term."
Cash flow from operations remained strong during the quarter, reaching $724 million, and return on equity was 10.7 percent. Excluding special items and equity compensation, return on equity increased 180 basis points to 13.8 percent compared to our first quarter last year.
In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123(R), Cardinal Health expensed stock options, restricted shares and share units, and stock appreciation rights totaling $83 million during the quarter, or $0.12 per share. For fiscal 2006, the company expects equity compensation expenses to be approximately $0.31 to $0.34 per share. During the first quarter of fiscal 2005, $2 million of equity compensation was expensed as the company had not yet adopted the new guidelines. For the entire prior year, equity compensation expenses were $10 million.
Expensing of equity compensation
Highlights of the first quarter include:
First-Quarter Highlights
 
Cardinal Health First-Quarter Results Reflect Strong Demand, Continued Earnings Improvement Page 3
As previously announced, Cardinal Health has adjusted segment results to reflect a change in the company's methodology for allocating corporate costs to its business segments. This change will more fully allocate corporate costs and better align corporate spending with the business segments receiving the related benefit.
Segment Results
(See attached tables for specific segment results, definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in this release, a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their comparable GAAP measures, and a schedule of notable items. The fiscal 2006 operating-earnings goals discussed below exclude the impact of the change in corporate allocation methodology, non-recurring and other items, and equity compensation expenses. These tables are also available at the Investors page on .)
www.cardinalhealth.com
Revenue for the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment grew 9 percent during the quarter to $15.8 billion and operating earnings rose 25 percent to $199 million, both in line with company expectations. Margin growth was driven by earlier-than-expected launches of new generic products, ongoing expense controls, and efficient inventory management associated with new distribution service agreements and Cardinal Health's new National Logistics Center.
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
After conducting a system review of vendor credits, a $32 million charge related to prior years was taken during the quarter. This charge was necessary after review of the performance terms of contracts and related to credits for a limited number of vendors erroneously not processed and recorded during prior periods.
For the full year, Cardinal Health continues to expect operating earnings in the segment to grow below its long-term goal of 10 percent to 13 percent, primarily due to slower market growth, lower price inflation for branded pharmaceuticals, fewer generic-product launches and a lower starting point for branded buy margin related to new distribution service agreements.
Medical Products and Services revenue increased 7 percent during the quarter to $2.6 billion and operating earnings rose 21 percent to $151 million.
Medical Products and Services
Revenue and earnings from infection-prevention products, medical specialties and PreSource surgical packs, all increased during the quarter, and distribution margins remained stable, primarily due to growth in private-label products. Ongoing efficiency programs and continued strength in markets outside the United States also contributed to earnings growth in the segment. A $16.4-million latex litigation charge was incurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2005, adding to the favorable year-over-year comparison. Cardinal Health continues to expect segment operating earnings to increase for the year, consistent with its long-term goal of 6 percent to 9 percent. Continued strength in manufactured products and benefits from efficiency and sourcing programs are expected to drive earnings growth for the full year.
 
Cardinal Health First-Quarter Results Reflect Strong Demand, Continued Earnings Improvement Page 4
Revenue for the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment grew 2 percent during the quarter to $713 million, while operating earnings declined 42 percent to $45 million. The earnings decline was primarily due to previously identified issues in sterile manufacturing, combined with weakness in the company's contract sales business and the calendarization of certain non-product revenues in the oral technologies business.
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
Specific actions underway are expected to improve operating earnings by at least 50 percent from the first quarter to the second quarter. These actions include:
For the full year, operating earnings are expected to grow in line with the company's long-term goal for the segment of 12 percent to 18 percent due to ongoing benefits of the actions taken and favorable comparisons to the prior year.
Results for the Clinical Technologies and Services segment demonstrate strong momentum from the fourth quarter as hospital and health systems continued to select Alaris and Pyxis products over competitors. Revenue in the segment grew 10 percent to $576 million and operating earnings increased 88 percent to $78 million. A $20.2-million Alaris inventory purchase-accounting adjustment during the first quarter of fiscal 2005 contributed to a favorable year-over-year comparison.
Clinical Technologies and Services
Operational and product-quality improvements initiated last year have contributed to stronger demand, margins and customer satisfaction for Pyxis products. Committed contracts exceeded internal projections and the quarter ended with a backlog of $247 million. Alaris products experienced similar strength, with the number of committed contracts also exceeding internal projections.
For the full year, Cardinal Health continues to expect operating earnings for the segment to grow in-line with its long-term goal of 15 percent to 20 percent.
Cardinal Health reiterated its fiscal 2006 earnings-per-share outlook of $3.30 to $3.55 excluding special items, non-recurring and other items and the impact of equity compensation expenses. Over the long term, Cardinal Health expects earnings per share excluding special items and non-recurring items to grow 12 percent to 15 percent annually with an annual goal of returning up to 50 percent of operating cash flow to shareholders through share buy-backs and dividends. During the next several years, the company's goal is to increase dividends to up to 20 percent of earnings per share.
Outlook
 
Cardinal Health First-Quarter Results Reflect Strong Demand, Continued Earnings Improvement Page 5
Cardinal Health will host a conference call and webcast at 10 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) to discuss its first-quarter results. To access the discussion, go to the Investors page at www.cardinalhealth.com or dial 706-634-5100, conference, passcode 9950114. An audio replay will be available until 11 p.m. on November 2 at 706-645-9291, passcode 9950114. A transcript and audio replay will also be available at .
Conference Call
http://www.cardinalhealth.com
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $75 billion, global company serving the health-care industry with a broad portfolio of products and services. Through its diverse offering, Cardinal Health delivers integrated health-care solutions that help customers reduce their costs, improve efficiency and deliver better care to patients. The company manufactures, packages and distributes pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, offers a range of clinical services and develops automation products that improve the management and delivery of supplies and medication for hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies. Ranked No. 16 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 55,000 people on six continents. More information about the company may be found at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form 10-Q reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: the costs, difficulties, and uncertainties related to the implementation of organizational changes and the integration of acquired businesses; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings; the impact of previously announced restatements; difficulties or delays or increased costs in implementing its global restructuring program, including facility rationalizations; difficulties in opening new facilities or fully utilizing existing capacity; difficulties and uncertainties associated with business model transitions; general economic and market conditions; with respect to future dividends, the decision by the board of directors to declare such dividends, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's surplus, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects at the time any such action is considered; and, with respect to future share repurchase programs, the approval of the board of directors, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's then-current stock price, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects as well as alternatives available to Cardinal Health at the time any such action is considered. Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
(in millions, except per Common Share amounts)
 
The following table summarizes the impact of special items on net earnings and diluted earnings per Common Share in the quarters in which they were recorded:
 
(in millions)
 
(in millions)
 
(in millions)
 
(in millions)
Gross margin / selling, general and administrative expenses
Margin per Expense Dollar =
See the GAAP / NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION schedule for the calculations and definitions supporting the balances excluding special items.
 
(in millions)
 
(in millions)
DEFINITIONS:
 Amounts that conform with generally accepted accounting principles.
* GAAP
(Earnings from continuing operations + special items after tax + the effect of equity compensation on shareholders' equity) / (average shareholders' equity excluding the impact of special items and equity compensation).
Return on equity (excluding special items and equity compensation) =
Note: The effect of equity compensation on shareholders' equity was $1.9 million and $0.8 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively. Average shareholders' equity excluding the impact of special items and equity compensation was $8.8 billion and $8.1 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and 2005, respectively.
= (Income tax provision + tax effect of special items) / (earnings before income taxes + special items)
Effective tax rate (excluding special items)
= (Current quarter earnings excluding special items  prior year quarter earnings excluding special items)/ prior year quarter earnings excluding special items
Growth rate (excluding special items)
= Current quarter earnings excluding special items / revenue
Ratio to revenue (excluding special items)
= [Operating earnings excluding special items annualized x (1-effective tax rate, excluding special items)] / average (equity + debt + unrecorded goodwill)
Return on invested capital (excluding special items)
Note: Average unrecorded goodwill used in return on invested capital calculation was $9.7 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005.
 

 
Exhibit 99.02
     Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") incurred special items during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 consisting primarily of restructuring charges of $9.1 million, merger-related charges of $7.8 million and costs related to the Securities Exchange Commission ("SEC") investigation and Audit Committee internal review and related matters of $5.9 million. The costs were partially offset by income of $0.1 million received in conjunction with the settlement of litigation arising from antitrust claims alleging certain prescription drug manufacturers took improper actions to delay or prevent generic drug competition. Restructuring charges primarily relate to the previously announced global restructuring program in connection with the Company's One Cardinal Health initiative. The costs incurred to date under the global restructuring program primarily consist of employee-related costs, asset impairments and facility exit costs. Merger-related charges include such items as employee-related costs and costs associated with exit and consolidation of facilities, as well as costs of integrating acquired businesses. Costs related to the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review and related matters primarily include legal fees and document preservation and production costs. On an after-tax basis, the special items incurred during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 totaled $14.5 million compared to $20.0 million for the year-earlier period. In the opinion of management, these special items, by their nature, rarely have predictable trends and are not truly reflective of ongoing operating results. Therefore, the Company presents its results on both a basis using generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and a basis excluding these special items.
     Management uses the basis excluding these special items to measure its performance in addition to the GAAP results. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use a metric that does not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring items for the Company, management believes they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate to more strategic, multi-year corporate actions that tend to mask the trends and financial performance of the Company's products and services. Management also believes that investors may also find an unmasked view of the Company's core operations to be useful.
     In addition, the Company presented certain items as non-recurring or significant in nature. The Company believes the presentation of these items is useful for investors to assess the operating results and trends. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, these items include asset impairment charges and losses on sale of fixed assets of $2.5 million and a $31.8 million charge that was necessary after review of the performance terms of contracts and related to credits for a limited number of vendors erroneously not processed and recorded during prior periods. On an after-tax basis, the charges totaled $23.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2006.
     The Company also presented certain financial metrics excluding the impact of equity compensation. The presentation of these metrics excluding the impact of equity compensation aids the reader to understand comparability between periods and operating trends. During the first quarter of fiscal 2006, equity compensation expense totaled $82.9 million, or $52.3 million after-tax, compared to $2.1 million, or $1.4 million after-tax, for the year-earlier period.
     Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the amounts that have been adjusted as a supplemental metric to assist readers. It should be noted that the items being adjusted from the GAAP results represent actual income or expense to the Company. These items impact operating cash flow available to support on-going operations. As such, these items are an important component of the financial performance of the Company and any metric excluding them will present an incomplete picture.


