FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20051107162327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan
     At the Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") annual meeting of shareholders held on November 2, 2005, the Company's shareholders approved the Company's 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan"). Under the 2005 Plan, the administrator of the plan may grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, "other stock-based awards" (as defined in the 2005 Plan) and cash awards to employees. A total of 18,000,000 of the Company's common shares, without par value (the "Common Shares"), are reserved for issuance under the 2005 Plan. A total of 6,000,000 Common Shares may be granted pursuant to stock appreciation rights, stock awards and other stock-based awards. The 2005 Plan provides that the maximum number of Common Shares that may be subject to awards granted to any employee in any fiscal year may not exceed 1,000,000. The maximum amount payable pursuant to that portion of a cash award earned with respect to any fiscal year to any employee may not exceed $7,500,000. Common Shares subject to awards that have been cancelled, expired, forfeited or settled in cash will be added back to the share reserve.
     The 2005 Plan may be administered by the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), a committee appointed by the Board, or its delegate. The Board has designated the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") as the administrator of the 2005 Plan. The administrator, in its discretion, selects the employees to whom awards may be granted, the time or times at which such awards are granted, and the terms of such awards. The 2005 Plan was effective immediately upon shareholder approval, and will terminate on November 2, 2015, unless the administrator terminates it earlier. The administrator may amend, alter or discontinue the 2005 Plan or any award agreement, but any material amendment will be subject to approval of the Company's shareholders. The Company's management will recommend to the Board that the Board, at its next regularly scheduled meeting, adopt a plan amendment requiring shareholder approval to reserve additional shares for issuance under the 2005 Plan.
     A more detailed description of the 2005 Plan appears in the proxy statement mailed to the Company's shareholders in connection with the annual meeting held on November 2, 2005.
     The 2005 Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this report and the description of the plan in this report is qualified in its entirety by reference to the exhibit. Attached to this report as Exhibits 10.02 and 10.03 are forms of nonqualified stock option and restricted share units agreements under the 2005 Plan. Attached to this report as Exhibits 10.04 and 10.05 are forms of nonqualified stock option and restricted share units agreements under the 2005 Plan for employees residing in California.
Long-Term Incentive Cash Plan
     On August 2, 2005, the Compensation Committee established, pursuant to the 2005 Plan, a long-term incentive cash program covering the period from July 1, 2005 through June 30, 2008 (the "Cash Plan"), subject to Board approval (which was obtained on August 3, 2005) and to approval by the shareholders of the 2005 Plan (which, as noted above, was obtained on November 2, 2005). Certain of the Company's executive officers and other managers will participate in the Cash Plan, and a maximum award and performance criteria necessary to permit payment under the Cash Plan were established on September 15, 2005. Such criteria relate to the achievement over the three-year performance period ending June 30, 2008 of a specified average level of the Company's annual return on equity (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States).
 
The Compensation Committee may exercise discretion to reduce the amount of actual awards under the Cash Plan to an amount less than the maximum amount payable under the objective performance criteria, and it is anticipated that such discretion may be exercised in part based upon the degree to which the Company achieves certain specified levels of net operating profit after taxes during the performance period.
Amendment to Retention Agreement with a Named Executive Officer
     On November 2, 2005, ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc. ("Alaris"), a subsidiary of the Company, entered into an amendment, effective as of the same date, to a retention agreement with David L. Schlotterbeck, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Clinical Technologies and Services. The retention agreement was originally entered into with Mr. Schlotterbeck on August 31, 2004 following the Company's acquisition of Alaris in July 2004. The following is a summary of the material terms of the amendment.
     Under the original retention agreement, if Mr. Schlotterbeck remains employed by Alaris, the Company or one of the Company's affiliates through June 28, 2006, he will be entitled to a retention bonus (the "Retention Bonus") in an amount equal to the greater of (a) $2,172,000, or (b) the sum of (i) 200% of his annual base salary effective as of June 28, 2006, and (ii) 200% of his target bonus for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2006. The amendment provides that if the Retention Bonus is earned, it will be paid (with interest accruing from June 28, 2006 through the deferred payment date at the rate of 6.0%) as soon as practicable following the first to occur of (x) Mr. Schlotterbeck's death, or (y) within 15 days following the first date after June 30, 2008 on which Mr. Schlotterbeck could be paid the Retention Bonus without the Company being subject to the limitations on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
     Under the amendment, in the event that Mr. Schlotterbeck terminates employment on or subsequent to January 25, 2008 (during the fiscal year concluding on June 30, 2008), he will be entitled to receive a prorated annual bonus payment and a prorated cash payout under any then-applicable cash incentive plan in which he is then participating. The amendment also has the effect of extending through January 25, 2008 the period during which certain termination events would trigger certain non-cash severance benefits, including outplacement services, welfare benefits continuation and vesting of accrued but unvested benefits under certain qualified and non-qualified retirement and deferred compensation plans.
     The amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.06 to this report and the description of the amendment in this report is qualified in its entirety by reference to the exhibit. Except as amended by the amendment, Mr. Schlotterbeck's original retention agreement remains in full force and effect.
Director Annual Equity Award Grants
     On November 2, 2005, each non-management member of the Company's Board received an annual equity award grant of (1) options to purchase, in the aggregate, 3,398 Common Shares and (2) 485 restricted share units ("RSUs"). Each option has an exercise price of $61.79 per share (the closing price of the Common Shares on November 2, 2005), a one-year vesting period and a seven-year term. Each RSU award has a one-year vesting period and is payable in Common Shares. The options were granted under the Company's Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "EIP"), and the Amended and Restated Outside Directors Equity Incentive Plan (the "ODEIP"). The RSU awards were granted under the ODEIP. Mr. Darden received an initial equity award of an option and RSUs in the same amounts and on the same terms as the annual equity award grants to non-management directors.
 
     Attached to this report as Exhibit 10.07 is a form of directors' nonqualified stock option agreement under the EIP. Attached to this report as Exhibits 10.08 and 10.09 are forms of directors' nonqualified stock option and directors' restricted share units agreements under the ODEIP.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
(d)
     On November 2, 2005, the Board elected Calvin Darden to the Board for a term that expires at the Company's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders. Mr. Darden served as Senior Vice President, U.S. Operations and as a Director of United Parcel Service, Inc. ("UPS") until he retired from his positions with UPS earlier this year. Mr. Darden is currently a director of Target Corporation and Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Mr. Darden was elected as a member of the Compensation Committee.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
     In connection with the annual meeting of shareholders and the Board's electing a new director and declaring a dividend, the Company issued a press release on November 2, 2005, which is being furnished as Exhibit 99.01 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.01 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. 2005 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 1. PURPOSE OF THE PLAN. The purpose of this Plan is to encourage ownership in the Company by key personnel whose long-term employment is considered essential to the Company's continued progress and, thereby, encourage such personnel to act in the shareholders' interest and share in the Company's success. The Plan also is intended to assist the Company in the recruitment of new employees. 2. DEFINITIONS. As used herein, the following definitions shall apply: (a) "ADMINISTRATOR" means the Board, any Committee or such delegates as shall be administering the Plan in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan. (b) "AFFILIATE" means any Subsidiary or other entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or any entity in which the Company has a significant ownership interest as determined by the Administrator. (c) "APPLICABLE LAW" means the requirements relating to the administration of stock option plans under U.S. federal and state laws, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Company has listed or submitted for quotation the Common Shares to the extent provided under the terms of the Company's agreement with such exchange or quotation system and, with respect to Awards subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction where Awards are, or will be, granted under the Plan, the laws of such jurisdiction. (d) "AWARD" means a Cash Award, Stock Award, Option, Stock Appreciation Right or Other Stock-Based Award granted in accordance with the terms of the Plan. (e) "AWARDEE" means an Employee who has been granted an Award under the Plan. (f) "AWARD AGREEMENT" means a Cash Award Agreement, Stock Award Agreement, Option Agreement, Stock Appreciation Right Agreement and/or Other Stock-Based Award Agreement, which may be in written or electronic format, in such form and with such terms as may be specified by the Administrator, evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual Award. Each Award Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. (g) "BOARD" means the Board of Directors of the Company. (h) "CASH AWARD" means a bonus opportunity awarded under Section 13 of the Plan pursuant to which a Participant may become entitled to receive an amount based on the satisfaction of such performance criteria as are specified in the agreement or, if no agreement is entered into with respect to the Cash Award, other documents evidencing the Award (the "Cash Award Agreement"). (i) "CHANGE OF CONTROL" means any of the following: i. the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of twenty-five percent (25%) or more of either (x) the then outstanding Common Shares of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Shares"), or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a
Change of Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; (B) any acquisition by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company; or (D) any acquisition by any corporation that is a Non-Control Acquisition (as defined in subsection (iii) of this Section 2(i)); or ii. individuals who, as of the effective date of this Plan, constitute the Board of the Company (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of the Company; provided, however, that any individual becoming a Director subsequent to the effective date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the Directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or iii. consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition by the Company of assets or shares of another corporation (a "Business Combination"), unless, such Business Combination is a Non-Control Acquisition. A "Non-Control Acquisition" shall mean a Business Combination where: (x) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Shares and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be; (y) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, twenty-five percent (25%) or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination (including any ownership that existed in the Company or the company being acquired, if any); and (z) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or iv. approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. (j) "CODE" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. (k) "COMMITTEE" means a committee of Directors appointed by the Board in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan or the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board. (l) "COMMON SHARES" means the common shares, without par value, of the Company. (m) "COMPANY" means Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation, or, except as utilized in the definition of Change of Control, its successor. (n) "CONVERSION AWARD" has the meaning set forth in Section 4(b)(xii) of the Plan. 2
(o) "DIRECTOR" means a member of the Board. (p) "DISABILITY," unless the Administrator determines otherwise, has the meaning specified in the Company's long-term disability plan applicable to the Participant at the time of the disability. (q) "DISAFFILIATION" means a Subsidiary's or Affiliate's ceasing to be a Subsidiary or Affiliate for any reason (including, without limitation, as a result of a public offering, or a spinoff or sale by the Company, of the stock of the Subsidiary or Affiliate) or a sale of a division of the Company and its Affiliates. (r) "EMPLOYEE" means a regular, active employee of the Company or any Affiliate, including an Officer and/or Director who is also a regular, active employee of the Company or any Affiliate. The Administrator shall determine whether the Chairman of the Board qualifies as an "Employee." For any and all purposes under the Plan, the term "Employee" shall not include a person hired as an independent contractor, leased employee, consultant or a person otherwise designated by the Administrator, the Company or an Affiliate at the time of hire as not eligible to participate in or receive benefits under the Plan or not on the payroll, even if such ineligible person is subsequently determined to be a common law employee of the Company or an Affiliate or otherwise an employee by any governmental or judicial authority. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion, for purposes of the Plan, an Employee shall be considered to have terminated employment and to have ceased to be an Employee if his or her employer ceases to be an Affiliate, even if he or she continues to be employed by such employer. (s) "EXCHANGE ACT" means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. (t) "GRANT DATE" means, with respect to each Award, the date upon which the Award is granted to an Awardee pursuant to this Plan. (u) "INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION" means an Option that is identified in the Option Agreement as intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and that actually does so qualify. (v) "FAIR MARKET VALUE" means the fair market value of the Common Shares as determined by the Administrator from time to time. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, the fair market value shall be the closing price for the Common Shares reported on a consolidated basis on the New York Stock Exchange on the relevant date or, if there were no sales on such date, the closing price on the nearest preceding date on which sales occurred. (w) "NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION" means an Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option. (x) "OFFICER" means a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. (y) "OPTION" means a right granted under Section 8 of the Plan to purchase a number of Shares or Stock Units at such exercise price, at such times, and on such other terms and conditions as are specified in the agreement or other documents evidencing the Award (the "Option Agreement"). Both Incentive Stock Options and Nonqualified Stock Options may be granted under the Plan. (z) "OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARD" means an Award granted pursuant to Section 12 of the Plan on such terms and conditions as are specified in the agreement or other documents evidencing the Award (the "Other Stock-Based Award Agreement"). (aa)"PARTICIPANT" means the Awardee or any person (including any estate) to whom an Award has been assigned or transferred as permitted hereunder. (bb)"PLAN" means this 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (cc)"QUALIFYING PERFORMANCE CRITERIA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(b) of the Plan. 3
(dd)"RETIREMENT" means, unless the Administrator determines otherwise, voluntary Termination of Employment by a Participant from the Company and its Affiliates after attaining age fifty-five (55) and having (i) at least ten (10) years of service with the Company and its Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company, and (ii) at least five years of continuous service with the Company and its Affiliates, excluding service with an Affiliate of the Company prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company. (ee)"SECURITIES ACT" means the United States Securities Act of 1933, as amended. (ff)"SHARE" means a Common Share, as adjusted in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan. (gg)"STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHT" means a right granted under Section 10 of the Plan on such terms and conditions as are specified in the agreement or other documents evidencing the Award (the "Stock Appreciation Right Agreement"). (hh)"STOCK AWARD" means an award or issuance of Shares or Stock Units made under Section 11 of the Plan, the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or transferability of which is subject during specified periods of time to such conditions (including without limitation continued employment or performance conditions) and terms as are expressed in the agreement or other documents evidencing the Award (the "Stock Award Agreement"). (ii)"STOCK UNIT" means a bookkeeping entry representing an amount equivalent to the Fair Market Value of one Share, payable in cash, property or Shares. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, except as otherwise provided for by the Administrator. (jj)"SUBSIDIARY" means any company (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of companies beginning with the Company, provided each company in the unbroken chain (other than the Company) owns, at the time of determination, stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other companies in such chain. (kk)"TERMINATION FOR CAUSE" means, unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, Termination of Employment on account of any act of fraud or intentional misrepresentation or embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets of the Company or any Affiliate, or the intentional and repeated violation of the written policies or procedures of the Company, provided that for an Employee who is party to an individual severance or employment agreement defining Cause, except as may be provided in such agreement, "Cause" shall have the meaning set forth in such agreement. For purposes of this Plan, a Participant's Termination of Employment shall be deemed to be a Termination for Cause if, after the Participant's employment has terminated, facts and circumstances are discovered that would have justified, in the opinion of the Committee, a Termination for Cause. (ll)"TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT" means ceasing to be an Employee; provided, however, that, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, for purposes of this Plan, a Participant will not be deemed to have had a Termination of Employment if such Participant continues to be or becomes a Director or becomes an independent contractor, leased employee or consultant to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for Incentive Stock Option purposes, Termination of Employment will occur when the Awardee ceases to be an employee (as determined in accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder) of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries. 3. STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN. (a) Aggregate Limit. Subject to the provisions of Section 16(a) of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be subject to Awards granted under the Plan is 18,000,000 Shares. The aggregate number of Shares subject to Awards granted under this Plan shall not be reduced by Shares subject to Awards granted upon the assumption of, or in substitution for, awards granted by a business or entity that is acquired by, or whose assets are acquired by, the Company. The Shares issued pursuant to the 4
Plan may be either Shares reacquired by the Company, including Shares purchased in the open market, or authorized but unissued Shares. (b) Code Section 162(m) and 422 Limits. Subject to the provisions of Section 16(a) of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares subject to Awards granted under this Plan during any fiscal year to any one Awardee shall not exceed 1,000,000. Subject to the provisions of Section 16(a) of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares that may be subject to all Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan is 4,500,000 Shares. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the limitations set forth in this Section 3(b) shall be subject to adjustment under Section 16(a) of the Plan only to the extent that such adjustment will not affect the status of any Award intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. (c) Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards Limit. Subject to the provisions of Section 16(a) of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares that may be granted subject to Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards made under the Plan is 6,000,000 Shares. (d) Share Counting Rules. i. For purposes of this Section 3 of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares subject to Awards granted under the Plan at any time shall not be reduced by Shares subject to Awards that have been canceled, expired, forfeited or settled in cash. ii. The following Shares shall not become available for Awards under this Plan: (A) Shares subject to Awards that have been retained by the Company in payment or satisfaction of the purchase price of an Award or the tax withholding obligation of an Awardee; (B) Shares that have been delivered (either actually or constructively by attestation) to the Company in payment or satisfaction of the purchase price of an Award or the tax withholding obligation of an Awardee; or (C) Shares reserved for issuance upon a grant of Stock Appreciation Rights which are exercised and settled in Shares, to the extent the number of reserved Shares exceeds the number of Shares actually issued upon the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Rights. 4. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN. (a) Procedure. i. Multiple Administrative Bodies. The Plan shall be administered by the Board, a Committee designated by the Board to so administer this Plan and/or their respective delegates. ii. Section 162(m). To the extent that the Administrator determines it to be desirable to qualify Awards granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, Awards to "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code or to Employees that the Committee determines may be "covered employees" in the future shall be made by a Committee of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Administrator shall not have any discretion or authority to make changes to any Award that is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" to the extent that the existence of such discretion or authority would cause such Award not to so qualify. iii. Rule 16b-3. To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act ("Rule 16b-3"), Awards to Officers and Directors shall be made by the entire Board or a Committee of two or more "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3. iv. Other Administration. Except to the extent prohibited by Applicable Law, the Board or a Committee may delegate to a Committee of one or more Directors or to authorized officers of the 5
Company the power to approve Awards to persons eligible to receive Awards under the Plan who are not (A) subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or (B) at the time of such approval, "covered employees" under Section 162(m) of the Code. v. Delegation of Authority for the Day-to-Day Administration of the Plan. Except to the extent prohibited by Applicable Law, the Administrator may delegate to one or more individuals the day-to-day administration of the Plan and any of the functions assigned to it in this Plan. Such delegation may be revoked at any time. (b) Powers of the Administrator. Subject to the provisions of the Plan and, in the case of a Committee or delegates acting as the Administrator, subject to the specific duties delegated to such Committee or delegates, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion: i. to select the Employees of the Company or its Affiliates to whom Awards are to be granted hereunder; ii. to determine the number of Common Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder; iii. to determine the type of Award to be granted to the selected Employees; iv. to approve forms of Award Agreements; v. to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder. Such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise and/or purchase price, the time or times when an Award may be exercised (which may or may not be based on performance criteria), the vesting schedule, any vesting and/or exercisability provisions, terms regarding acceleration of Awards or waiver of forfeiture restrictions, the acceptable forms of consideration for payment for an Award, the term, and any restriction or limitation regarding any Award or the Shares relating thereto, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine and may be established at the time an Award is granted or thereafter; vi. to correct administrative errors; vii. to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan (including sub-plans and Plan addenda) and Awards granted pursuant to the Plan; viii. to adopt rules and procedures relating to the operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of local laws and procedures. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrator is specifically authorized (A) to adopt the rules and procedures regarding the conversion of local currency, the shift of tax liability from employer to employee (where legally permitted) and withholding procedures and handling of stock certificates which vary with local requirements, and (B) to adopt sub-plans and Plan addenda as the Administrator deems desirable, to accommodate foreign laws, regulations and practice; ix. to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans and Plan addenda; x. to modify or amend each Award, including, but not limited to, the acceleration of vesting and/or exercisability, provided, however, that any such modification or amendment (A) is subject to the minimum vesting provisions set forth in Sections 8(e), 11(a) and 12(a) of the Plan and the plan amendment provisions set forth in Section 17 of the Plan, and (B) may not impair any outstanding Award unless agreed to in writing by the Participant, except that such agreement shall not be required if the Administrator determines in its sole discretion that such modification or amendment either (Y) is required or advisable in order for the Company, the Plan or the Award to satisfy any Applicable Law or to meet the requirements of any accounting standard, or (Z) is not reasonably likely to significantly diminish the benefits provided under such Award, or that adequate compensation has been provided 6
for any such diminishment; xi. to allow Participants to satisfy withholding tax amounts by electing to have the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued upon exercise of a Nonqualified Stock Option or vesting of a Stock Award that number of Shares having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount required to be withheld. The Fair Market Value of the Shares to be withheld shall be determined in such manner and on such date that the Administrator shall determine or, in the absence of provision otherwise, on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld for this purpose shall be made in such form and under such conditions as the Administrator may provide; xii. to authorize conversion or substitution under the Plan of any or all stock options, stock appreciation rights or other stock awards held by awardees of an entity acquired by the Company (the "Conversion Awards"). Any conversion or substitution shall be effective as of the close of the merger or acquisition. The Conversion Awards may be Nonqualified Stock Options or Incentive Stock Options, as determined by the Administrator, with respect to options granted by the acquired entity; xiii. to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Award previously granted by the Administrator; xiv. to impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by a Participant or of other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Shares issued as a result of or under an Award or upon the exercise of an Award, including without limitation, (A) restrictions under an insider trading policy, (B) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers, and (C) institution of "blackout" periods on exercises of Awards; xv. to provide, either at the time an Award is granted or by subsequent action, that an Award shall contain as a term thereof, a right, either in tandem with the other rights under the Award or as an alternative thereto, of the Participant to receive, without payment to the Company, a number of Shares, cash or a combination thereof, the amount of which is determined by reference to the value of the Award; and xvi. to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan and any Award granted hereunder. (c) Effect of Administrator's Decision. All questions arising under the Plan or under any Award shall be decided by the Administrator in its total and absolute discretion. All decisions, determinations and interpretations by the Administrator regarding the Plan, any rules and regulations under the Plan and the terms and conditions of any Award granted hereunder, shall be final and binding on all Participants. The Administrator shall consider such factors as it deems relevant, in its sole and absolute discretion, to making such decisions, determinations and interpretations including, without limitation, the recommendations or advice of any officer or other employee of the Company and such attorneys, consultants and accountants as it may select. 5. ELIGIBILITY. Awards may be granted only to Employees of the Company or any of its Affiliates. Awards may not be granted to a Director unless such Director otherwise qualifies as an Employee of the Company or one of its Affiliates. 6. TERM OF PLAN. The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by shareholders of the Company. It shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years from the date the Plan is approved by the shareholders of the Company unless terminated earlier under Section 17 of the Plan. 7
7. TERM OF AWARD. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the term of each Award shall be determined by the Administrator and stated in the Award Agreement. In the case of an Option, the term shall be ten (10) years from the Grant Date or such shorter term as may be provided in the Award Agreement. 8. OPTIONS. The Administrator may grant an Option or provide for the grant of an Option, either from time to time in the discretion of the Administrator or automatically upon the occurrence of specified events, including, without limitation, the achievement of performance goals, the satisfaction of an event or condition within the control of the Awardee or within the control of others. (a) Option Agreement. Each Option Agreement shall contain provisions regarding (i) the number of Shares that may be issued upon exercise of the Option, (ii) the type of Option, (iii) the exercise price of the Option and the means of payment of such exercise price, (iv) the term of the Option, (v) such terms and conditions on the vesting and/or exercisability of an Option as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator, (vi) restrictions on the transfer of the Option and forfeiture provisions, and (vii) such further terms and conditions, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan, as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator. (b) Exercise Price. The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the Administrator, except that the per Share exercise price shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Grant Date. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, at the Administrator's discretion, Conversion Awards may be granted in substitution and/or conversion of options of an acquired entity, with a per Share exercise price of less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of such substitution and/or conversion. (c) No Option Repricings. Subject to Section 16(a) of the Plan, the exercise price of an Option may not be reduced without shareholder approval. (d) No Reload Grants. Options shall not be granted under the Plan in consideration for and shall not be conditioned upon the delivery of Shares to the Company in payment of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligation under any other employee stock option. (e) Vesting Period and Exercise Dates. Options granted under this Plan shall vest and/or be exercisable at such time and in such installments during the period prior to the expiration of the Option's term as determined by the Administrator, except that no Option shall first become exercisable within one (1) year from its Grant Date, other than (i) upon a Change of Control as specified in Section 16(b) of the Plan, or (ii) upon the death, Disability or Retirement of the Awardee, in each case as specified in the Option Agreement. The Administrator shall have the right to make the timing of the ability to exercise any Option granted under this Plan subject to continued active employment, the passage of time and/or such performance requirements as deemed appropriate by the Administrator. At any time after the grant of an Option, the Administrator may reduce or eliminate any restrictions surrounding any Participant's right to exercise all or part of the Option, subject to restrictions set forth above. (f) Form of Consideration. The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method of payment, either through the terms of the Option Agreement or at the time of exercise of an Option. Acceptable forms of consideration may include: i. cash; ii. check or wire transfer (denominated in U.S. Dollars); iii.subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, other Shares which 8
(A) in the case of Shares acquired from the Company (whether upon the exercise of an Option or otherwise), have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months on the date of surrender (unless this condition is waived by the Administrator), and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to or greater than the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised (it being agreed that the excess of the Fair Market Value over the aggregate exercise price shall be refunded to the Awardee in cash); iv. subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, the Company withholding shares otherwise issuable upon exercise of an Option; v. consideration received by the Company under a broker-assisted sale and remittance program acceptable to the Administrator; vi. such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Law; or vii. any combination of the foregoing methods of payment. (g) Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder. i. Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the applicable Option Agreement. ii. An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives (A) written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Option Agreement or procedures established by the Administrator) from the person entitled to exercise the Option, (B) full payment for the Shares with respect to which the related Option is exercised, and (C) with respect to Nonqualified Stock Options, provisions acceptable to the Administrator have been made for payment of all applicable withholding taxes. iii.Unless provided otherwise by the Administrator or pursuant to this Plan, until the Shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a shareholder shall exist with respect to the Shares subject to an Option, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option. iv. The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such Shares as soon as administratively practicable after the Option is exercised. An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share. (h) Termination of Employment. The Administrator shall determine as of the Grant Date (subject to modification subsequent to the Grant Date) the effect a Termination of Employment due to (i) Disability, (ii) Retirement, (iii) death, or (iv) otherwise (including Termination for Cause) shall have on any Option. 9. INCENTIVE STOCK OPTION LIMITATIONS/TERMS. (a) Eligibility. Only employees (as determined in accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may be granted Incentive Stock Options. No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to any such employee who as of the Grant Date owns stock possessing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of the Company. (b) $100,000 Limitation. Notwithstanding the designation "Incentive Stock Option" in an Option Agreement, if and to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by the Awardee during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and any of its Subsidiaries) exceeds U.S. $100,000, such Options shall be treated as Nonqualified Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 9(b) of the Plan, Incentive Stock Options shall 9
be taken into account in the order in which they were granted. The Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the Grant Date. (c) Transferability. The Option Agreement must provide that an Incentive Stock Option cannot be transferable by the Awardee otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of such Awardee, must not be exercisable by any other person. If the terms of an Incentive Stock Option are amended to permit transferability, the Option will be treated for tax purposes as a Nonqualified Stock Option. (d) Exercise Price. The per Share exercise price of an Incentive Stock Option shall in no event be inconsistent with the requirements for qualification of the Incentive Stock Option under Section 422 of the Code. (e) Other Terms. Option Agreements evidencing Incentive Stock Options shall contain such other terms and conditions as may be necessary to qualify, to the extent determined desirable by the Administrator, with the applicable provisions of Section 422 of the Code. 10. STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS. A "Stock Appreciation Right" is a right that entitles the Awardee to receive, in cash or Shares (as determined by the Administrator), value equal to or otherwise based on the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of a specified number of Shares at the time of exercise over (ii) the aggregate exercise price of the right, as established by the Administrator on the Grant Date. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to Awardees either alone ("freestanding") or in addition to or in tandem with other Awards granted under the Plan and may, but need not, relate to a specific Option granted under Section 8 of the Plan. Any Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with an Option may be granted at the same time such Option is granted or at any time thereafter before exercise or expiration of such Option. All Stock Appreciation Rights under the Plan shall be granted subject to the same terms and conditions applicable to Options as set forth in Section 8 of the Plan; provided, however, that Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with a previously granted Option shall have the terms and conditions of such Option. Subject to the provisions of Section 8 of the Plan, the Administrator may impose such other conditions or restrictions on any Stock Appreciation Right as it shall deem appropriate. Stock Appreciation Rights may be settled in Shares or cash as determined by the Administrator. 11. STOCK AWARDS. (a) Stock Award Agreement. Each Stock Award Agreement shall contain provisions regarding (i) the number of Shares subject to such Stock Award or a formula for determining such number, (ii) the purchase price of the Shares, if any, and the means of payment for the Shares, (iii) the performance criteria, if any, and level of achievement versus these criteria that shall determine the number of Shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested, (iv) such terms and conditions on the grant, issuance, vesting and/or forfeiture of the Shares as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator, (v) restrictions on the transferability of the Stock Award, and (vi) such further terms and conditions in each case not inconsistent with this Plan as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator. No condition that is based upon performance criteria and level of achievement versus such criteria shall be based on performance over a period of less than one (1) year and no condition that is based upon continued employment or the passage of time shall provide for vesting in full of a Stock Award in less than pro rata installments over three (3) years from the date the Stock Award is made, other than (i) with respect to such Stock Awards that are issued upon the exercise or settlement of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, (ii) upon a Change of Control as specified in Section 16(b) of the Plan, (iii) upon the death, Disability or Retirement of the Awardee, in each case as specified in the Stock Award Agreement, or (iv) for up to 600,000 Shares subject to Stock Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards in the aggregate which shall have no minimum vesting period. (b) Restrictions and Performance Criteria. The grant, issuance, retention and/or vesting of each Stock Award may be subject to such performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria as the Administrator shall determine, which criteria may be based on financial performance, personal 10
performance evaluations and/or completion of service by the Awardee. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the performance criteria for any Stock Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be established by the Administrator based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Administrator and specified in writing not later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period of service (or, if earlier, the elapse of 25% of such period) to which the performance goals relate, provided that the outcome is substantially uncertain at that time. (c) Termination of Employment. The Administrator shall determine as of the Grant Date (subject to modification subsequent to the Grant Date) the effect a Termination of Employment due to (i) Disability, (ii) Retirement, (iii) death, or (iv) otherwise (including Termination for Cause) shall have on any Stock Award. (d) Rights as a Shareholder. Unless otherwise provided for by the Administrator, the Participant shall have the rights equivalent to those of a shareholder and shall be a shareholder only after Shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) to the Participant. 12. OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS. (a) Other Stock-Based Awards. An "Other Stock-Based Award" means any other type of equity-based or equity-related Award not otherwise described by the terms of this Plan (including the grant or offer for sale of unrestricted Shares) in such amount and subject to such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall determine. Such Awards may involve the transfer of actual Shares to Participants, or payment in cash or otherwise of amounts based on the value of Shares. Each Other Stock-Based Award will be evidenced by an Award Agreement containing such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Administrator. No condition that is based upon performance criteria and level of achievement versus such criteria shall be based on performance over a period of less than one (1) year and no condition that is based upon continued employment or the passage of time shall provide for vesting in full of an Other Stock-Based Award in less than pro rata installments over three (3) years from the date the Other Stock-Based Award is made, other than (i) with respect to such Other Stock-Based Awards that are issued upon the exercise or settlement of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, (ii) upon a Change of Control as specified in Section 16(b) of the Plan, (iii) upon the death, Disability or Retirement of the Awardee, in each case as specified in the Other Stock-Based Award Agreement, or (iv) for up to 600,000 Shares subject to Stock Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards in the aggregate which shall have no minimum vesting period. (b) Value of Other Stock-Based Awards. Each Other Stock-Based Award shall be expressed in terms of Shares or units based on Shares, as determined by the Administrator. The Administrator may establish performance goals in its discretion. If the Administrator exercises its discretion to establish performance goals, the number and/or value of Other Stock-Based Awards that will be paid out to the Participant will depend on the extent to which the performance goals are met. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the performance criteria for any Other Stock-Based Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be established by the Administrator based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Administrator and specified in writing not later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period of service (or, if earlier, the elapse of 25% of such period) to which the performance goals relate and otherwise within the time period required by the Code and the applicable Treasury Regulations, provided that the outcome is substantially uncertain at that time. (c) Payment of Other Stock-Based Awards. Payment, if any, with respect to Other Stock-Based Awards shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Award, in cash or Shares as the Administrator determines. (d) Termination of Employment. The Administrator shall determine as of the Grant Date (subject to modification subsequent to the Grant Date) the effect a Termination of Employment due to (i) Disability, (ii) Retirement, (iii) death, or (iv) otherwise (including Termination for Cause) shall have on any Other Stock-Based Award. 11
13. CASH AWARDS. Each Cash Award will confer upon the Participant the opportunity to earn a future payment tied to the level of achievement with respect to one or more performance criteria established for a performance period. (a) Cash Award. Each Cash Award may contain provisions regarding (i) the amounts potentially payable to the Participant as a Cash Award, (ii) the performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria which shall determine the amount of such payment, (iii) the period as to which performance shall be measured for establishing the amount of any payment, (iv) the timing of any payment earned by virtue of performance, (v) restrictions on the alienation or transfer of the Cash Award prior to actual payment, (vi) forfeiture provisions, and (vii) such further terms and conditions, in each case not inconsistent with the Plan, as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator. The maximum amount payable as a Cash Award that is settled for cash may be a multiple of the target amount payable, but the maximum amount payable pursuant to portions of Cash Awards earned with respect to any fiscal year to any Awardee shall not exceed U.S. $7,500,000. (b) Performance Criteria. The Administrator shall establish the performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria which shall determine the amounts payable under a Cash Award, which criteria may be based on financial performance and/or personal performance evaluations. The Administrator may specify the percentage of the target Cash Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the performance criteria for any portion of a Cash Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be a measure established by the Administrator based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Administrator and specified in writing not later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period of service (or, if earlier, the elapse of 25% of such period) to which the performance goals relates, provided that the outcome is substantially uncertain at that time. (c) Timing and Form of Payment. The Administrator shall determine the timing of payment of any Cash Award. The Administrator may provide for or, subject to such terms and conditions as the Administrator may specify, may permit an Awardee to elect for the payment of any Cash Award to be deferred to a specified date or event. The Administrator may specify the form of payment of Cash Awards, which may be cash or other property, or may provide for an Awardee to have the option for his or her Cash Award, or such portion thereof as the Administrator may specify, to be paid in whole or in part in cash or other property. To the extent that a Cash Award is in the form of cash, the Administrator may determine whether a payment is in U.S. dollars or foreign currency. (d) Termination of Employment. The Administrator shall determine as of the Grant Date (subject to modification subsequent to the Grant Date) the effect a Termination of Employment due to (i) Disability, (ii) Retirement, (iii) death, or (iv) otherwise (including Termination for Cause) shall have on any Cash Award. 14. OTHER PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO AWARDS. (a) Non-Transferability of Awards. Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred or disposed of in any manner other than by beneficiary designation, will or by the laws of descent or distribution. The Administrator may make an Award transferable to an Awardee's family member or any other person or entity. If the Administrator makes an Award transferable, either as of the Grant Date or thereafter, such Award shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate, and any transferee shall be deemed to be bound by such terms upon acceptance of such transfer. (b) Qualifying Performance Criteria. For purposes of this Plan, the term "Qualifying Performance Criteria" shall mean any one or more of the following performance criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit, 12
Affiliate or business segment, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee in the Award: (i) cash flow; (ii) earnings (including gross margin, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before taxes, and net earnings); (iii) earnings per share; (iv) growth in earnings or earnings per share; (v) stock price; (vi) return on equity or average shareholders' equity; (vii) total shareholder return; (viii) return on capital; (ix) return on assets or net assets; (x) return on investment; (xi) revenue; (xii) income or net income; (xiii) operating income or net operating income; (xiv) operating profit or net operating profit (whether before or after taxes); (xv) operating margin; (xvi) return on operating revenue; (xvii) market share; (xviii) contract awards or backlog; (xix) overhead or other expense reduction; (xx) growth in shareholder value relative to the moving average of the S&P 500 Index or a peer group index; (xxi) credit rating; (xxii) strategic plan development and implementation; (xxiii) improvement in workforce diversity; (xxiv) customer satisfaction; (xxv) employee satisfaction; (xxvi) management succession plan development and implementation; and (xxvii) employee retention. With respect to any Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the performance criteria must be Qualifying Performance Criteria, and the Administrator will (within the first quarter of the performance period, but in no event more than ninety (90) days into that period) establish the specific performance targets (including thresholds and whether to exclude certain extraordinary, non-recurring, or similar items) and award amounts (subject to the right of the administrator to exercise discretion to reduce payment amounts following the conclusion of the performance period). (c) Certification. Prior to the payment of any compensation under an Award intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which any Qualifying Performance Criteria and any other material terms under such Award have been satisfied (other than in cases where such criteria relate solely to the increase in the value of the Common Shares). (d) Discretionary Adjustments Pursuant to Section 162(m). Notwithstanding satisfaction of any completion of any Qualifying Performance Criteria, to the extent specified as of the Grant Date, the number of Shares, Options or other benefits granted, issued, retainable and/or vested under an Award on account of satisfaction of such Qualifying Performance Criteria may be reduced by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine. 15. DIVIDENDS AND DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS. Any Award may provide the Awardee with the right to receive dividend payments or dividend equivalent payments on the Shares subject the Award, whether or not such Award has been exercised or is vested. Such payments may be made in cash or may be credited as cash or Stock Units to an Awardee's account and later settled in cash or Shares or a combination thereof, as determined by the Administrator. Such payments and credits may be subject to such conditions and contingencies as the Administrator may establish. 16. ADJUSTMENTS UPON CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION, ORGANIC CHANGE OR CHANGE OF CONTROL. (a) Adjustment Clause. In the event of (i) a stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, share combination, or recapitalization or similar event affecting the capital structure of the Company (each, a "Share Change"), or (ii) a merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or shares, separation, spinoff, reorganization, stock rights offering, liquidation, Disaffiliation, or similar event affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (each, a "Organic Change"), the Administrator or the Board may in its discretion make such substitutions or adjustments as it deems appropriate and equitable to (i) the Share limitations set forth in Sections 3, 11(a) and 12(a) of the Plan, (ii) the number and kind of Shares covered by each outstanding Award, and (iii) the price per Share subject to each such outstanding Award. In the case of Organic Changes, such adjustments may include, without limitation, (x) the cancellation of outstanding Awards in exchange for payments of cash, property or a combination thereof having an aggregate value equal to the value of such Awards, as determined by the Administrator or the Board in its sole discretion (it being understood that in the case of an Organic Change with respect to which shareholders receive consideration other than publicly traded equity securities of the ultimate surviving entity, any such 13
determination by the Administrator that the value of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall for this purpose be deemed to equal the excess, if any, of the value of the consideration being paid for each Share pursuant to such Organic Change over the exercise price of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall conclusively be deemed valid); (y) the substitution of other property (including, without limitation, cash or other securities of the Company and securities of entities other than the Company) for the Shares subject to outstanding Awards; and (z) in connection with any Disaffiliation, arranging for the assumption of Awards, or replacement of Awards with new awards based on other property or other securities (including, without limitation, other securities of the Company and securities of entities other than the Company), by the affected Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division or by the entity that controls such Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division following such Disaffiliation (as well as any corresponding adjustments to Awards that remain based upon Company securities). (b) Change of Control. In the event of a Change of Control, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator as of the Grant Date of a particular Award (or subsequent to the Grant Date), the following acceleration, exercisability and valuation provisions shall apply: i. On the date that such Change of Control occurs, any or all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights awarded under this Plan not previously exercisable and vested shall become fully exercisable and vested. ii. Except as may be provided in an individual severance or employment agreement (or severance plan) to which an Awardee is a party, in the event of an Awardee's Termination of Employment within two (2) years after a Change of Control for any reason other than because of the Awardee's death, Retirement, Disability or Termination for Cause, each Option and Stock Appreciation Right held by the Awardee (or a transferee) that is vested following such Termination of Employment shall remain exercisable until the earlier of the third (3rd) anniversary of such Termination of Employment (or any later date until which it would remain exercisable by its terms) or the expiration of its original term. In the event of an Awardee's Termination of Employment more than two (2) years after a Change of Control, or within two (2) years after a Change of Control because of the Awardee's death, Retirement, Disability or Termination for Cause, the provisions of Sections 8(h) and 10 of the Plan shall govern (as applicable). iii. On the date that such Change of Control occurs, the restrictions applicable to any or all Stock Awards, Other Stock-Based Awards and Cash Awards shall lapse and such Awards shall be fully vested. (c) Section 409A. Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) any adjustments made pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Plan to Awards that are considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code shall be made in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; (ii) any adjustments made pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Plan to Awards that are not considered "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code shall be made in such a manner as to ensure that after such adjustment, the Awards either continue not to be subject to Section 409A of the Code or comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; (iii) the Administrator shall not have the authority to make any adjustments pursuant to Section 16(a) of the Plan to the extent that the existence of such authority would cause an Award that is not intended to be subject to Section 409A of the Code to be subject thereto; and (iv) if any Award is subject to Section 409A of the Code, Section 16(b) of the Plan shall be applicable only to the extent specifically provided in the Award Agreement and permitted pursuant to Section 25 of the Plan. 17. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN. (a) Amendment and Termination. The Administrator may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan or any Award Agreement, but any such amendment shall be subject to approval of the shareholders of the Company in the manner and to the extent required by Applicable Law. In addition, without limiting the foregoing, unless approved by the shareholders of the Company and subject to Section 16(a), no such amendment shall be made that would reduce the minimum exercise price for Options or Stock Appreciation 14
Rights granted under the Plan or reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options or Stock Appreciation Rights. (b) Effect of Amendment or Termination. No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Participant with respect to an outstanding Award, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Participant and the Company, except that no such agreement shall be required if the Administrator determines in its sole discretion that such amendment either (i) is required or advisable in order for the Company, the Plan or the Award to satisfy any Applicable Law or to meet the requirements of any accounting standard, or (ii) is not reasonably likely to significantly diminish the benefits provided under such Award, or that any such diminishment has been adequately compensated, except following a Change of Control. Termination of the Plan shall not affect the Administrator's ability to exercise the powers granted to it hereunder with respect to Awards granted under the Plan prior to the date of such termination. (c) Effect of the Plan on Other Arrangements. Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board or a Committee nor the submission of the Plan to the shareholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or any Committee to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it or they may deem desirable, including without limitation, the granting of restricted shares or restricted share units or stock options otherwise than under the Plan, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases. 18. DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY. (a) An Awardee may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive the Awardee's rights pursuant to Awardee's Award or the Awardee may include his or her Awards in an omnibus beneficiary designation for all benefits under the Plan. To the extent that Awardee has completed a designation of beneficiary while employed with Company, such beneficiary designation shall remain in effect with respect to any Award hereunder until changed by the Awardee to the extent enforceable under Applicable Law. (b) Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the Awardee at any time by written notice. In the event of the death of an Awardee and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such Awardee's death, the Company shall allow the legal representative of the Awardee's estate to exercise the Award. 19. NO RIGHT TO AWARDS OR TO EMPLOYMENT. No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award and the grant of any Award shall not be construed as giving an Awardee the right to continue in the employ of the Company or its Affiliates. Further, the Company and its Affiliates expressly reserve the right, at any time, to dismiss any Employee or Awardee at any time without liability or any claim under the Plan, except as provided herein or in any Award Agreement entered into hereunder. 20. LEGAL COMPLIANCE. Shares shall not be issued pursuant to an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Stock Award or Other Stock-Based Award unless the such Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Stock Award or Other Stock-Based Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Law and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance. Unless the Awards and Shares covered by this Plan have been registered under the Securities Act or the Company has determined that such registration is unnecessary, each person receiving an Award and/or Shares pursuant to any Award may be required by the Company to give a representation in writing that such person is acquiring such Shares for his or her own account for investment and not with a view to, or for sale in connection with, the distribution of any part thereof. 15
21. INABILITY TO OBTAIN AUTHORITY. To the extent the Company is unable to or the Administrator deems it infeasible to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be advisable or necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, the Company shall be relieved of any liability with respect to the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. 22. RESERVATION OF SHARES. The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan. 23. NOTICE. Any written notice to the Company required by any provisions of this Plan shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Company and shall be effective when received. 24. GOVERNING LAW; INTERPRETATION OF PLAN AND AWARDS. (a) This Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the state of Ohio, except as to matters governed by U.S. federal law. (b) In the event that any provision of the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan is declared to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be reformed, if possible, to the extent necessary to render it legal, valid and enforceable, or otherwise deleted, and the remainder of the terms of the Plan and/or Award shall not be affected except to the extent necessary to reform or delete such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision. (c) The headings preceding the text of the sections hereof are inserted solely for convenience of reference, and shall not constitute a part of the Plan, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect. (d) The terms of the Plan and any Award shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective permitted heirs, beneficiaries, successors and assigns. 25. SECTION 409A. It is the intention of the Company that no Award shall be "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code, unless and to the extent that the Administrator specifically determines otherwise, and the Plan and the terms and conditions of all Awards shall be interpreted accordingly. The terms and conditions governing any Awards that the Administrator determines will be subject to Section 409A of the Code, including any rules for elective or mandatory deferral of the delivery of cash or Shares pursuant thereto and any rules regarding treatment of such Awards in the event of a Change of Control, shall be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement, and shall comply in all respects with Section 409A of the Code. 26. LIMITATION ON LIABILITY. The Company and any Affiliate which is in existence or hereafter comes into existence shall not be liable to a Participant, an Employee, an Awardee or any other persons as to: (a) The Non-Issuance of Shares. The non-issuance or sale of Shares as to which the Company has been unable to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder; and 16
(b) Tax or Exchange Control Consequences. Any tax consequence expected, but not realized, or any exchange control obligation owed, by any Participant, Employee, Awardee or other person due to the receipt, exercise or settlement of any Option or other Award granted hereunder. 27. UNFUNDED PLAN. Insofar as it provides for Awards, the Plan shall be unfunded. Although bookkeeping accounts may be established with respect to Awardees who are granted Stock Awards under this Plan, any such accounts will be used merely as a bookkeeping convenience. The Company shall not be required to segregate any assets which may at any time be represented by Awards, nor shall this Plan be construed as providing for such segregation, nor shall the Company nor the Administrator be deemed to be a trustee of stock or cash to be awarded under the Plan. Any liability of the Company to any Participant with respect to an Award shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations which may be created by the Plan; no such obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or other encumbrance on any property of the Company. Neither the Company nor the Administrator shall be required to give any security or bond for the performance of any obligation which may be created by this Plan. 28. FOREIGN EMPLOYEES. Awards may be granted hereunder to Employees who are foreign nationals, who are located outside the United States or who are not compensated from a payroll maintained in the United States, or who are otherwise subject to (or could cause the Company to be subject to) legal or regulatory provisions of countries or jurisdictions outside the United States, on such terms and conditions different from those specified in the Plan as may, in the judgment of the Administrator, be necessary or desirable to foster and promote achievement of the purposes of the Plan, and, in furtherance of such purposes, the Administrator may make such modifications, amendments, procedures, or subplans as may be necessary or advisable to comply with such legal or regulatory provisions. 29. TAX WITHHOLDING. No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of the Participant for federal income tax purposes with respect to any Award under the Plan, the Participant shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, any federal, state, local or foreign taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such amount. Unless otherwise determined by the Company, withholding obligations may be settled with Shares, including Shares that is part of the Award that gives rise to the withholding requirement; provided, however, that not more than the legally required minimum withholding may be settled with Shares. The obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company and its Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to the participant. The Administrator may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate, including making irrevocable elections, for the settlement of withholding obligations with Shares. 17

Exhibit 10.02 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT On [date of grant] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to [employee name] ("Awardee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase [# of shares] common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") for a price of [$X.XX] per share. The Option has been granted under the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and will include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and will be subject to the provisions of this agreement. Capitalized terms used in this agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Option shall vest and become exercisable [CLIFF ALTERNATIVE: on [vesting date]] [INSTALLMENT ALTERNATIVE: in accordance with the following schedule: [vesting schedule], subject [INSTALLMENT ALTERNATIVE: in each case] to the provisions of this agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued employment with the Company and its Affiliates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Option shall vest in full. This Option shall expire on [date of expiration] (the "Grant Expiration Date"). 1. Method of Exercise and Payment of Price. (a) Method of Exercise. At any time when all or a portion of the Option is exercisable under the Plan and this agreement, some or all of the exercisable portion of the Option may be exercised from time to time by written notice to the Company, or such other method of exercise as may be specified by the Company, including without limitation, exercise by electronic means on the web site of the Company's third-party option plan administrator, which will: (i) state the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised; and (ii) if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than Awardee, if not already provided, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all applicable laws and regulations. (b) Payment of Price. The full exercise price for the portion of the Option being exercised shall be paid to the Company as provided below: (i) in cash; (ii) by check or wire transfer (denominated in U.S. Dollars); (iii) subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired from the Company (whether upon the exercise of an Option or otherwise), have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender (unless this condition is waived by the Administrator), and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to or greater than the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised (it being agreed that the excess of the Fair Market Value over the aggregate exercise price shall be refunded to the Awardee in cash);
(iv) consideration received by the Company under a broker-assisted sale and remittance program acceptable to the Administrator; or (v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment. 2. Transferability. The Option shall be transferable (I) at Awardee's death, by Awardee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by Awardee during Awardee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces or nephews of Awardee, or any other persons sharing Awardee's household (other than tenants or employees) (collectively, "Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of Awardee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which Awardee or such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which Awardee or such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited, except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in subparagraphs II(a), (b) or (c), above, with respect to the original Awardee. The Administrator may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are owned by Awardee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within 10 days of any transfer, Awardee shall notify the Compensation and Benefits department of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this agreement, references to the original Awardee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of a Termination of Employment of Awardee provided in paragraph 3 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Awardee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in paragraph 3. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of Awardee's Termination of Employment with the Company for any reason. The conduct prohibited of Awardee in paragraphs 5 and 6 hereof shall continue to be prohibited of Awardee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from Awardee to the same extent as would have been the case of Awardee had the Option not been transferred. Awardee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 29 of the Plan following transfer of the Option. 3. Termination of Employment. (a) Termination of Employment by Reason of Death. If a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of death prior to the vesting in full of the Option, then any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death. The Option may thereafter be exercised by any transferee of Awardee, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee for a period of one year from the date of death or until the Grant Expiration Date, whichever period is shorter. (b) Termination of Employment by Reason of Retirement or Disability. If a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of Retirement or Disability prior to the vesting in full of the 2
Option, then any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will automatically be forfeited. The Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the earlier of the fifth anniversary of the date of such Retirement or Disability or the Grant Expiration Date, provided that if Awardee has at least 15 years of service with the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group") at the time of Retirement, the Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the Grant Expiration Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Awardee dies after Retirement or Disability, but before the expiration of the exercise period provided for by the preceding sentence, the Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by any transferee of the Option, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee from and after such death only until the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of the date of death or (y) the date upon which such exercise period would have otherwise expired. (c) Other Termination of Employment. If a Termination of Employment occurs by any reason other than death, Retirement or Disability, any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will automatically be forfeited. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator at or after grant or Termination of Employment and subject to Section 16(b)(ii) of the Plan, Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) will have 90 days from the date of Termination of Employment or until the Grant Expiration Date, whichever period is shorter, to exercise any portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable on the date of Termination of Employment; provided, however, that if the Termination of Employment was a Termination for Cause, as determined by the Administrator, the Option may be immediately canceled by the Administrator (whether then held by Awardee or any transferee). 4. Restrictions on Exercise. The Option is subject to all restrictions in this agreement and/or in the Plan. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require Awardee or his or her transferee or successor to make any representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters (including Awardee's compliance with the terms of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement or any employment or severance agreement between the Cardinal Group and Awardee) reasonably requested by the Company. 5. Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct. As used in this agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the Cardinal Group any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Cardinal Group; violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used in this agreement, "Competitor Triggering 3
Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Awardee's Termination of Employment, accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. 6. Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules. For so long as Awardee continues as an employee with the Cardinal Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in paragraph 5 above, then: (a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and (b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay the Company an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by Awardee or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the market value of the Shares underlying the Option on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Shares underlying the Option), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), less $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this paragraph 6 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this paragraph 6 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This paragraph 6 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this paragraph 6 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement, the provisions of this agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of 4
employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made. 7. Right of Set-Off. By accepting this Option, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this agreement. 8. Withholding Tax. The Company shall have the right to require Awardee to pay to the Company the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to the Options, or, in lieu thereof, to retain, or sell without notice, a sufficient number of Shares subject to the Option to cover the amount required to be withheld. In the case of any amounts withheld for taxes pursuant to this provision in the form of Shares, the amount withheld shall not exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. 9. Governing Law/Venue. This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the Option and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this agreement. 5
10. Action by the Administrator. The parties agree that the interpretation of this agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious. 11. Prompt Acceptance of Agreement. The Option grant evidenced by this agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited be forfeited if this agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date. 12. Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Option grant under and participation in the Plan or future options that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of option grants and the execution of option agreements through electronic signature. 13. Notices. All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below: Cardinal Health, Inc. 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, Ohio 43017 Attention: Chief Legal Officer Facsimile: (614) 757-6948 All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee. 6
CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. By: _______________________________ Its: ______________________________ 7
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this agreement and the Option granted to him or her under this agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this agreement, including the provisions in the agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/ Repayment Rules" set forth in paragraphs 5 and 6 above; and (c) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan. [_______________________________ Awardee's Signature ________________________________ Awardee's Social Security Number ________________________________ Date] 8

Exhibit 10.03 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT On [grant date] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to [employee name] ("Awardee") [# of shares] Restricted Share Units (the "Restricted Share Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. The Restricted Share Units have been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Share Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. 1. Vesting. Subject to the provisions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Restricted Share Units shall vest [CLIFF VESTING ALTERNATIVE: on [vesting date] (the "Vesting Date")] [INSTALLMENT VESTING ALTERNATIVE: in accordance with the following schedule: [vesting schedule] (each such vesting date, the "Vesting Date" with respect to the Restricted Share Units scheduled to vest on such date)]. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full. 2. Transferability. The Restricted Share Units shall not be transferable. 3. Termination of Employment. Except as set forth below, if a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting of a Restricted Share Unit, such Restricted Share Unit shall be forfeited by Awardee. If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Share Units by reason of Awardee's death, then any unvested Restricted Share Units shall vest in full and shall not be forfeited. 4. Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct. As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group") any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Cardinal Group; violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Termination of Employment, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure
of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. 5. Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules. For so long as Awardee continues as an Employee with the Cardinal Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then: (a) any Restricted Share Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and (b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Share Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Share Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and the time of Awardee's engaging in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from his or her obligations under this Paragraph 5 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 5 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provision of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Share Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Share Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Share Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this 2
Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made. 6. Payment. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement, on the [VESTING PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: date of vesting of any Restricted Share Unit] [DEFERRED PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: [___-month][___-year] anniversary of the first date on which Awardee ceases to be an Employee of the Company (unless such cessation does not constitute a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, in which case the settlement contemplated by this paragraph shall occur on the first date that does so constitute a "separation from service")], Awardee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 10) the Shares represented by [VESTING PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: such Restricted Share Unit] [DEFERRED PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: any then-vested Restricted Share Units; provided, however, that, subject to the next sentence, in the event that some or all of the Restricted Share Units vest prior to the [INSTALLMENT VESTING ALTERNATIVE: applicable] Vesting Date as a result of the death of Awardee or as a result of a Change of Control, Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date of such vesting. Notwithstanding the proviso of the preceding sentence, if Restricted Share Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Change of Control under circumstances where such occurrence would not qualify as a permissible date of distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, such proviso shall not apply and Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that would have applied absent such proviso]. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. 7. Dividends. Awardee shall not receive cash dividends on the Restricted Share Units but instead shall, with respect to each Restricted Share Unit, receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the earlier of the forfeiture of such unit in accordance with the terms hereof or the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Share represented by such unit. 8. Right of Set-Off. By accepting these Restricted Share Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this Agreement. 9. No Shareholder Rights. Awardee shall have no rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Share Units, including, without limitation, Awardee shall not have the right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units. 10. Withholding Tax. The Company shall have the right to require Awardee to pay to the Company the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to the Restricted Share Units (including the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to the cash payments described in Paragraph 7 hereof) or, in lieu thereof, to retain, or sell without notice, a sufficient number of Shares to cover the amount required to be withheld. In the case of any amounts withheld for taxes pursuant to this provision in the form of Shares, the amount withheld shall not exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the 3
right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments. 11. Beneficiary Designation. Awardee may designate a beneficiary to receive any Shares to which Awardee is entitled with respect to the Restricted Share Units which vest as a result of Awardee's death. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct as herein defined, the Restricted Share Units subject to such beneficiary designation shall be subject to the Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules and the Company's Right of Set-Off or other right of recovery set forth in this Agreement, and all rights of the beneficiary shall be subordinated to the rights of the Company pursuant to such provisions of this Agreement. Awardee acknowledges that the Company may exercise all rights under this Agreement and the Plan against Awardee and Awardee's estate, heirs, lineal descendants and personal representatives and shall not be limited to exercising its rights against Awardee's beneficiary. 12. Governing Law/Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Share Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement. 13. Action by the Administrator. The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "Designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its Designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its Designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its Designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its Designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or 4
Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious. 14. Prompt Acceptance of Agreement. The Restricted Share Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date. 15. Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Share Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Share Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means or to request Awardee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of restricted share unit grants and the execution of restricted share unit agreements through electronic signature. 16. Notices. All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below: Cardinal Health, Inc. 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, Ohio 43017 Attention: Chief Legal Officer Facsimile: (614) 757-6948 All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. By: ________________________________ Its: _______________________________ 5
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders, and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan; (b) accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Share Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in paragraphs 4 and 5 above; (c) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement; (d) represents and warrants to the Company that he or she is purchasing the Restricted Share Units for his or her own account, for investment, and not with a view to or any present intention of selling or distributing the Restricted Share Units either now or at any specific or determinable future time or period or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of any predetermined or reasonably foreseeable event; and (e) agrees that no transfer of the Shares delivered in respect of the Restricted Share Units shall be made unless the Shares have been duly registered under all applicable Federal and state securities laws pursuant to a then-effective registration which contemplates the proposed transfer or unless the Company has received a written opinion of, or satisfactory to, its legal counsel that the proposed transfer is exempt from such registration. [_________________________________ Awardee's Signature _________________________________ Awardee's Social Security Number _________________________________ Date] 6

EXHIBIT 10.04 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. NONQUALIFIED STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT On [date of grant] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to [employee name] ("Awardee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase [# of shares] common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") for a price of [$X.XX] per share. The Option has been granted under the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and will include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and will be subject to the provisions of this agreement. Capitalized terms used in this agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Option shall vest and become exercisable [CLIFF ALTERNATIVE: on [vesting date]] [INSTALLMENT ALTERNATIVE: in accordance with the following schedule: [vesting schedule], subject [INSTALLMENT ALTERNATIVE: in each case] to the provisions of this agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued employment with the Company and its Affiliates. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Option shall vest in full. This Option shall expire on [date of expiration] (the "Grant Expiration Date"). 1. Method of Exercise and Payment of Price. (a) Method of Exercise. At any time when all or a portion of the Option is exercisable under the Plan and this agreement, some or all of the exercisable portion of the Option may be exercised from time to time by written notice to the Company, or such other method of exercise as may be specified by the Company, including without limitation, exercise by electronic means on the web site of the Company's third-party option plan administrator, which will: (i) state the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised; and (ii) if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than Awardee, if not already provided, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all applicable laws and regulations. (b) Payment of Price. The full exercise price for the portion of the Option being exercised shall be paid to the Company as provided below: (i) in cash; (ii) by check or wire transfer (denominated in U.S. Dollars); (iii) subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired from the Company (whether upon the exercise of an Option or otherwise), have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender (unless this condition is waived by the Administrator), and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to or greater than the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised (it being agreed that the excess of the Fair Market Value over the aggregate exercise price shall be refunded to the Awardee in cash);
(iv) consideration received by the Company under a broker-assisted sale and remittance program acceptable to the Administrator; or (v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment. 2. Transferability. The Option shall be transferable (I) at Awardee's death, by Awardee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by Awardee during Awardee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces or nephews of Awardee, or any other persons sharing Awardee's household (other than tenants or employees) (collectively, "Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of Awardee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which Awardee or such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which Awardee or such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited, except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in subparagraphs II(a), (b) or (c), above, with respect to the original Awardee. The Administrator may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are owned by Awardee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within 10 days of any transfer, Awardee shall notify the Compensation and Benefits department of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this agreement, references to the original Awardee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of Termination of Employment of Awardee provided in paragraph 3 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Awardee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in paragraph 3. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of Awardee's Termination of Employment with the Company for any reason. The conduct prohibited of Awardee in paragraphs 5 through 7 and, if applicable, paragraph 11 of this agreement shall continue to be prohibited of Awardee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from Awardee to the same extent as would have been the case of Awardee had the Option not been transferred. Awardee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of paragraph 13 of this agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 29 of the Plan following transfer of the Option. 3. Termination of Employment. (a) Termination of Employment by Reason of Death. If a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of death prior to the vesting in full of the Option, then any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death. The Option may thereafter be exercised by any transferee of Awardee, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee for a period of one year from the date of death or until the Grant Expiration Date, whichever period is shorter. 2
(b) Termination of Employment by Reason of Retirement or Disability. If a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of Retirement or Disability prior to the vesting in full of the Option, then any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will automatically be forfeited. The Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the earlier of the fifth anniversary of the date of such Retirement or Disability or the Grant Expiration Date, provided that if Awardee has at least 15 years of service with the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group") at the time of Retirement, the Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the Grant Expiration Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Awardee dies after Retirement or Disability, but before the expiration of the exercise period provided for by the preceding sentence, the Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by any transferee of the Option, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee from and after such death only until the earlier of (x) the first anniversary of the date of death or (y) the date upon which such exercise period would have otherwise expired. (c) Other Termination of Employment. If a Termination of Employment occurs by any reason other than death, Retirement or Disability, any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will automatically be forfeited. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator at or after grant or Termination of Employment and subject to Section 16(b)(ii) of the Plan, Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) will have 90 days from the date of Termination of Employment or until the Grant Expiration Date, whichever period is shorter, to exercise any portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable on the date of Termination of Employment; provided, however, that if the Termination of Employment was a Termination for Cause, as determined by the Administrator, the Option may be immediately canceled by the Administrator (whether then held by Awardee or any transferee). 4. Restrictions on Exercise. The Option is subject to all restrictions in this agreement and/or in the Plan. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require Awardee or his or her transferee or successor to make any representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters (including Awardee's compliance with the terms of paragraphs 5 through 7 and, if applicable, paragraph 11 of this agreement or any employment or severance agreement between the Cardinal Group and Awardee) reasonably requested by the Company. 5. Agreement Not to Disclose or Use Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information. The parties acknowledge and agree that the Cardinal Group is the sole and exclusive owner of Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information and that the Cardinal Group has legitimate business interests in protecting such information. The parties further acknowledge and agree that the Cardinal Group has invested, and continues to invest, considerable amounts of time and money in obtaining, developing and preserving the confidentiality of such information. Further, the parties agree that, because of the trust and fiduciary relationship arising between Awardee and the Cardinal Group, Awardee owes the Cardinal Group a fiduciary duty to preserve and protect such information from any and all unauthorized disclosure and use. Accordingly, Awardee shall not, either directly or indirectly, disclose such information to any third party whatsoever and shall not use such information in any manner, except as authorized in the reasonable performance of Awardee's duties while employed by the Cardinal Group. "Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information" shall include any such information as defined 3
by applicable law and any information about the business of the Cardinal Group and its customers that is not generally known to, or readily ascertainable by, the public, including, but not limited to, financial information and models, customer lists, business plans or strategies, marketing and sales plans or strategies, the identity, compensation and qualifications of employees of the Cardinal Group, sources of supply, pricing policies, operational methods, product specification or technical processes, new product information, formulation techniques, customer contacts, profit or cost information, research and development information or other information that the Cardinal Group has developed or compiled. 6. Delivery of Company Property. Awardee recognizes and agrees that all documents, magnetic media, computer disks, desktop and laptop computers and other tangible items that were provided by the Cardinal Group and/or that contain Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information as defined above are the sole and exclusive property of the Cardinal Group. Upon request by the Cardinal Group, Awardee shall promptly and immediately return to the Cardinal Group all such documents, media, disks, desktop and laptop computers and other tangible items. Upon the Termination of Employment with the Cardinal Group, Awardee shall promptly and immediately return to the Cardinal Group any and all such documents, media, disks, desktop and laptop computers or other tangible items, without request by the Cardinal Group. Awardee shall not take any such information or make/retain copies of such information for any purpose whatsoever except as is necessary for the reasonable performance of Awardee's duties while employed by the Cardinal Group. 7. Other Covenants. Except as modified by paragraph 11 below, Awardee hereby covenants and agrees that, in consideration of the grant hereunder, Awardee shall not, either directly or indirectly, on Awardee's own behalf or on any other's behalf, engage in or assist others in any of the following activities: (a) Awardee shall not engage in any action or conduct that is a violation of the policies of the Cardinal Group, including conduct that would constitute a breach of any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies executed by Awardee; (b) During Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee shall not, either directly or indirectly, employ, contact concerning employment, or participate in any manner in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the 12 months prior to the Termination of Employment with the Cardinal Group; (c) Awardee shall not at any time during employment with the Cardinal Group nor at any time thereafter disparage the Cardinal Group or any of its employees, officers, representatives, services or products; (d) During Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee shall not engage in any action or conduct that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors or suppliers that were known to Awardee in the performance of Awardee's job duties while employed with the Cardinal Group; 4
(e) During Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee shall not solicit or accept business of the same type as that in which Awardee was employed by the Cardinal Group from any customer, potential customer, vendor or supplier of the Cardinal Group that was known to Awardee in the performance of Awardee's job duties while employed with the Cardinal Group, nor shall Awardee during such time period solicit or accept such business within any geographic area in which Awardee was assigned or for which Awardee had any managerial responsibility; (f) During Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee shall not accept employment with or serve as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group within a geographic area in which Awardee was assigned or for which Awardee had any managerial responsibility; and (g) Awardee shall not breach or violate any provision of any employment or severance agreement that Awardee has with any member of the Cardinal Group. 8. Inevitable Disclosure. The parties specifically acknowledge and agree that the provisions of this agreement are reasonable in light of the fact that, in the event that Awardee would become employed or otherwise associated with a competitor of the Cardinal Group, it would be inevitable that Awardee would disclose Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information as defined above to such competitor. The parties acknowledge and agree that Awardee has been introduced by the Cardinal Group to such Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information as defined above and that such information would aid the competitor and that the threat of such inevitable disclosure is so great that, for purposes of this agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. 9. Covenants Are Independent Elements. The parties acknowledge that the obligations and covenants set forth in paragraphs 5 through 8 above and, if applicable, paragraph 11 below are essential independent elements of this Option grant and that, but for Awardee agreeing to comply with them, the Cardinal Group would not have granted such Option to Awardee. The parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in paragraphs 5 through 8 above and, if applicable, paragraph 11 below are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made with regard to such paragraphs. The existence of any claim by Awardee against the Cardinal Group, whether based on this agreement or otherwise, shall not operate as a defense to the enforcement of the covenants contained in paragraphs 5 through 8 above and, if applicable, paragraph 11 below. The covenants contained in paragraphs 5 through 8 above and, if applicable, paragraph 11 below will remain in full force and effect whether Awardee is terminated by the Cardinal Group or voluntarily resigns. 10. Assignment of Covenants. The rights of the Cardinal Group under this agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, its successors and assigns. Any successor or assign of the Cardinal Group is authorized to enforce the covenants contained in this agreement. Any successor or assign of the Cardinal Group is authorized by the parties to enforce the covenants contained herein as if the name of such successor or assign shall replace the Cardinal Group throughout this agreement and any consent and/or notice, written or otherwise, is hereby waived and deemed unnecessary by Awardee. 5
11. California Specific Modifications. This paragraph 11 shall supercede and modify certain of the covenants, obligations and restrictions of Awardee set forth in paragraph 7 above in the event that, and only during such time that, Awardee's principal employment with the Cardinal Group is in the State of California. In the event that any of the provisions contained in subparagraphs 7(d) through (f) above are inconsistent with the provisions of this paragraph 11 with regard to the State of California, then the provisions contained in subparagraphs 7(d) through (f) shall not apply and the following provisions shall apply instead: (a) Within the geographic area in which Awardee was assigned or for which Awardee had any managerial responsibility, Awardee shall not, during Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following Termination of Employment for any reason, solicit or actually transact business with any existing customer of the Cardinal Group of which Awardee's knowledge of the existence of that customer or of that customer's purchasing habits, product preferences or commercial practices exists because of Awardee's receipt of Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information from the Cardinal Group; and (b) Regardless of geographic area, Awardee shall not, during the period of Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following Termination of Employment for any reason, solicit business from any customers of the same type as the business of the Cardinal Group at the time of the Termination of Employment with the Cardinal Group whose identities are not already within the public domain if Awardee directly serviced such customers, was assigned to such customers, was responsible for such customers or otherwise had personal contact with such customers during the 12-month period immediately preceding expiration of Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group. In the event that Awardee is reassigned to any other state within the United States of America other than the State of California or to any other country, then all of the provisions of paragraph 7 above shall apply in full force and effect and the provisions of this paragraph 11 shall not apply. 12. Reasonableness of Restrictions Contained in Agreement. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in this agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the legitimate business and proprietary interests of the Cardinal Group, are necessary to protect the goodwill between the Cardinal Group and its customers, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. 13. Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules. If Awardee engages in conduct that is in violation of the covenants and restrictions contained in this agreement, then Awardee shall be subject to the following special forfeiture/repayment rules in addition to any other remedy that the Cardinal Group may have: (a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and (b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay the Company an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by Awardee or any 6
transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the market value of the Shares underlying the Option on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Shares underlying the Option), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within three years prior to the conduct by Awardee that is in violation of the covenants and restrictions of this agreement (the "Look-Back Period"), less $1.00. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this paragraph 13 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days' written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to a competitor and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this agreement and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement, the provisions of this agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in paragraph 7 and, if applicable, paragraph 11 above are ancillary to or part of an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made. 14. Right of Set-Off. By accepting this Option, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this agreement. 15. Withholding Tax. The Company shall have the right to require Awardee to pay to the Company the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to the Options, or, in lieu thereof, to retain, or sell without notice, a sufficient number of Shares subject to the Option to cover the amount required to be withheld. In the case of any amounts withheld for taxes pursuant to this provision in the form of Shares, the amount withheld shall not exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. 16. Governing Law/Venue. This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the Option and 7
benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. 17. Severability. It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this agreement shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the laws and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. Accordingly, if any particular provision or portion of this agreement shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable as written, it is the intent and desire of the parties that the court shall modify the language of such provision or portion of this agreement to the extent necessary to make it valid and enforceable. If no such modification by the court is possible, this agreement shall be deemed amended to delete therefrom only the provision or portion thus determined to be invalid or unenforceable. Such modification or deletion is to apply only with respect to the operation of such provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such court determination is made. 18. Action by the Administrator. The parties agree that the interpretation of this agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes a violation of the covenants, obligations and restrictions of Awardee set forth in paragraphs 5 through 7 and, if applicable, paragraph 11 above, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious. 19. Prompt Acceptance of Agreement. The Option grant evidenced by this agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited be forfeited if this agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date. 20. Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Option grant under and participation in the Plan or future options that may be granted under the Plan by electronic 8
means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of option grants and the execution of option agreements through electronic signature. 21. Notices. All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below: Cardinal Health, Inc. 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, Ohio 43017 Attention: Chief Legal Officer Facsimile: (614) 757-6948 All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. By: ________________________________ Its: _______________________________ 9
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this agreement and the Option granted to him or her under this agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this agreement, including the obligations and covenants set forth in paragraphs 5 through 8 above and, if applicable, paragraph 11 above; and (c) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan. [_________________________________ Awardee's Signature __________________________________ Awardee's Social Security Number __________________________________ Date] 10

EXHIBIT 10.05 CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT On [grant date] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to [employee name] ("Awardee") [# of shares] Restricted Share Units (the "Restricted Share Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. The Restricted Share Units have been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Share Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. 1. Vesting. Subject to the provisions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Restricted Share Units shall vest [CLIFF VESTING ALTERNATIVE: on [vesting date] (the "Vesting Date")] [INSTALLMENT VESTING ALTERNATIVE: in accordance with the following schedule: [vesting schedule] (each such vesting date, the "Vesting Date" with respect to the Restricted Share Units scheduled to vest on such date)]. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full. 2. Transferability. The Restricted Share Units shall not be transferable. 3. Termination of Employment. Except as set forth below, if a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting of a Restricted Share Unit, such Restricted Share Unit shall be forfeited by Awardee. If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Share Units by reason of Awardee's death, then any unvested Restricted Share Units shall vest in full and shall not be forfeited. 4. Agreement Not to Disclose or Use Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information. The parties acknowledge and agree that the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group") is the sole and exclusive owner of Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information (as hereinafter defined) and that the Cardinal Group has legitimate business interests in protecting such information. The parties further acknowledge and agree that the Cardinal Group has invested, and continues to invest, considerable amounts of time and money in obtaining, developing and preserving the confidentiality of such information. Further, the parties agree that, because of the trust and fiduciary relationship arising between Awardee and the Cardinal Group, Awardee owes the Cardinal Group a fiduciary duty to preserve and protect such information from any and all unauthorized disclosure and use. Accordingly, Awardee shall not, either directly or indirectly, disclose such information to any third party whatsoever and shall not use such information in any manner, except as authorized in the reasonable performance of Awardee's duties while employed by the Cardinal Group. "Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information" shall include any such information as defined by applicable law and any information about the business of the Cardinal Group and its customers that is not generally known to, or readily ascertainable by, the public, including, but not limited to, financial information and models, customer lists, business plans or strategies, marketing and sales plans or strategies, the identity, compensation and qualifications of employees of the Cardinal Group, sources of supply, pricing policies, operational methods, product specification or technical processes, new product information, formulation techniques, customer contacts, profit or cost information, research and development information or other information that the Cardinal Group has developed or compiled.
5. Delivery of Company Property. Awardee recognizes and agrees that all documents, magnetic media, computer disks, desktop and laptop computers and other tangible items that were provided by the Cardinal Group and/or that contain Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information as defined above are the sole and exclusive property of the Cardinal Group. Upon request by the Cardinal Group, Awardee shall promptly and immediately return to the Cardinal Group all such documents, media, disks, desktop and laptop computers and other tangible items. Upon the Termination of Employment with the Cardinal Group, Awardee shall promptly and immediately return to the Cardinal Group any and all such documents, media, disks, desktop and laptop computers or other tangible items, without request by the Cardinal Group. Awardee shall not take any such information or make/retain copies of such information for any purpose whatsoever except as is necessary for the reasonable performance of Awardee's duties while employed by the Cardinal Group. 6. Other Covenants. Except as modified by Paragraph 10 below, Awardee hereby covenants and agrees that, in consideration of the grant hereunder, Awardee shall not, either directly or indirectly, on Awardee's own behalf or on any other's behalf, engage in or assist others in any of the following activities: (a) Awardee shall not engage in any action or conduct that is a violation of the policies of the Cardinal Group, including conduct that would constitute a breach of any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies executed by Awardee; (b) During Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee shall not, either directly or indirectly, employ, contact concerning employment, or participate in any manner in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the 12 months prior to the Termination of Employment with the Cardinal Group; (c) Awardee shall not at any time during employment with the Cardinal Group nor at any time thereafter disparage the Cardinal Group or any of its employees, officers, representatives, services or products; (d) During Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee shall not engage in any action or conduct that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors or suppliers that were known to Awardee in the performance of Awardee's job duties while employed with the Cardinal Group; (e) During Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee shall not solicit or accept business of the same type as that in which Awardee was employed by the Cardinal Group from any customer, potential customer, vendor or supplier of the Cardinal Group that was known to Awardee in the performance of Awardee's job duties while employed with the Cardinal Group, nor shall Awardee during such time period solicit or accept such business within any geographic area in which Awardee was assigned or for which Awardee had any managerial responsibility; (f) During Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months 2
following the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee shall not accept employment with or serve as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group within a geographic area in which Awardee was assigned or for which Awardee had any managerial responsibility; and (g) Awardee shall not breach or violate any provision of any employment or severance agreement that Awardee has with any member of the Cardinal Group. 7. Inevitable Disclosure. The parties specifically acknowledge and agree that the provisions of this Agreement are reasonable in light of the fact that, in the event that Awardee would become employed or otherwise associated with a competitor of the Cardinal Group, it would be inevitable that Awardee would disclose Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information as defined above to such competitor. The parties acknowledge and agree that Awardee has been introduced by the Cardinal Group to such Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information as defined above and that such information would aid the competitor and that the threat of such inevitable disclosure is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. 8. Covenants Are Independent Elements. The parties acknowledge that the obligations and covenants set forth in Paragraphs 4 through 7 above and, if applicable, Paragraph 10 below are essential independent elements of this Restricted Share grant and that, but for Awardee agreeing to comply with them, the Cardinal Group would not have granted such Restricted Share Units to Awardee. The parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 through 7 above and, if applicable, Paragraph 10 below are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made with regard to such paragraphs. The existence of any claim by Awardee against the Cardinal Group, whether based on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not operate as a defense to the enforcement of the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 through 7 above and, if applicable, Paragraph 10 below. The covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 through 7 above and, if applicable, Paragraph 10 below will remain in full force and effect whether Awardee is terminated by the Cardinal Group or voluntarily resigns. 9. Assignment of Covenants. The rights of the Cardinal Group under this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, its successors and assigns. Any successor or assign of the Cardinal Group is authorized to enforce the covenants contained in this Agreement. Any successor or assign of the Cardinal Group is authorized by the parties to enforce the covenants contained herein as if the name of such successor or assign shall replace the Cardinal Group throughout this Agreement and any consent and/or notice, written or otherwise, is hereby waived and deemed unnecessary by Awardee. 10. California Specific Modifications. This paragraph shall supercede and modify certain of the covenants, obligations and restrictions of Awardee set forth in Paragraph 6 above in the event that, and only during such time that, Awardee's principal employment with the Cardinal Group is in the State of California. In the event that any of the provisions contained in Subparagraphs 6(d) through (f) above are inconsistent with the provisions of this Paragraph 10 with regard to the State of California, then the provisions contained in Subparagraphs 6(d) through (f) shall not apply and the following provisions shall apply instead: (a) Within the geographic area in which Awardee was assigned or for which Awardee had any managerial responsibility, Awardee shall not, during Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following Termination of Employment for any reason, solicit or actually transact business with any existing customer of the Cardinal Group of 3
which Awardee's knowledge of the existence of that customer or of that customer's purchasing habits, product preferences or commercial practices exists because of Awardee's receipt of Confidential Information, Trade Secrets or Other Business Sensitive Information from the Cardinal Group; and (b) Regardless of geographic area, Awardee shall not, during the period of Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and for 12 months following Termination of Employment for any reason, solicit business from any customers of the same type as the business of the Cardinal Group at the time of the Termination of Employment with the Cardinal Group whose identities are not already within the public domain if Awardee directly serviced such customers, was assigned to such customers, was responsible for such customers or otherwise had personal contact with such customers during the 12-month period immediately preceding expiration of Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group. In the event that Awardee is reassigned to any other state within the United States of America other than the State of California or to any other country, then all of the provisions of Paragraph 6 above shall apply in full force and effect and the provisions of this Paragraph 10 shall not apply. 11. Reasonableness of Restrictions Contained in Agreement. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the legitimate business and proprietary interests of the Cardinal Group, are necessary to protect the goodwill between the Cardinal Group and its customers, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. 12. Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules. If Awardee engages in conduct that is in violation of the covenants and restrictions contained in this Agreement, then Awardee shall be subject to the following special forfeiture/repayment rules in addition to any other remedy that the Cardinal Group may have: (a) any Restricted Share Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such conduct that is in violation of the covenants and restrictions contained in this Agreement and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 13 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and (b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Share Units pursuant to Paragraph 13 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Share Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the conduct by Awardee that is in violation of the covenants and restrictions contained in this Agreement (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this Paragraph 12 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to a competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Agreement and Awardee's continuing obligations 4
contained herein. No provision of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Share Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Share Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Share Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraph 6 and, if applicable, Paragraph 10 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made. 13. Payment. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 through 7 and, if applicable, Paragraph 10, on the [VESTING PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: date of vesting of any Restricted Share Unit] [DEFERRED PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: [___-month][___-year] anniversary of the first date on which Awardee ceases to be an Employee of the Company (unless such cessation does not constitute a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, in which case the settlement contemplated by this paragraph shall occur on the first date that does so constitute a "separation from service")], Awardee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 17) the Shares represented by [VESTING PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: such Restricted Share Unit] [DEFERRED PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: any then-vested Restricted Share Units; provided, however, that, subject to the next sentence, in the event that some or all of the Restricted Share Units vest prior to the [INSTALLMENT VESTING ALTERNATIVE: applicable] Vesting Date as a result of the death of Awardee or as a result of a Change of Control, Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date of such vesting. Notwithstanding the proviso of the preceding sentence, if Restricted Share Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Change of Control under circumstances where such occurrence would not qualify as a permissible date of distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, such proviso shall not apply and Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that would have applied absent such proviso]. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. 14. Dividends. Awardee shall not receive cash dividends on the Restricted Share Units but instead shall, with respect to each Restricted Share Unit, receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the earlier of the forfeiture of such unit in accordance with the terms hereof or the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 13 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Share represented by such unit. 15. Right of Set-Off. By accepting these Restricted Share Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments 5
or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this Agreement. 16. No Shareholder Rights. Awardee shall have no rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Share Units, including, without limitation, Awardee shall not have the right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units. 17. Withholding Tax. The Company shall have the right to require Awardee to pay to the Company the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to the Restricted Share Units (including the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to the cash payments described in Paragraph 14 hereof) or, in lieu thereof, to retain, or sell without notice, a sufficient number of Shares to cover the amount required to be withheld. In the case of any amounts withheld for taxes pursuant to this provision in the form of Shares, the amount withheld shall not exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 14 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments. 18. Beneficiary Designation. Awardee may designate a beneficiary to receive any Shares to which Awardee is entitled with respect to the Restricted Share Units which vest as a result of Awardee's death. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Awardee engages in conduct that is in violation of the covenants and restrictions contained in this Agreement, the Restricted Share Units subject to such beneficiary designation shall be subject to the Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules and the Company's Right of Set-Off or other right of recovery set forth in this Agreement, and all rights of the beneficiary shall be subordinated to the rights of the Company pursuant to such provisions of this Agreement. Awardee acknowledges that the Company may exercise all rights under this Agreement and the Plan against Awardee and Awardee's estate, heirs, lineal descendants and personal representatives and shall not be limited to exercising its rights against Awardee's beneficiary. 19. Governing Law/Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superseded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Share Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. 20. Severability. It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this Agreement shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible under the laws and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. Accordingly, if any particular provision or portion of this Agreement shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable as 6
written, it is the intent and desire of the parties that the court shall modify the language of such provision or portion of this Agreement to the extent necessary to make it valid and enforceable. If no such modification by the court is possible, this Agreement shall be deemed amended to delete therefrom only the provision or portion thus determined to be invalid or unenforceable. Such modification or deletion is to apply only with respect to the operation of such provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such court determination is made. 21. Action by the Administrator. The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "Designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its Designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its Designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its Designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its Designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes a violation of the covenants, obligations and restrictions of Awardee set forth in Paragraphs 4 through 6 and, if applicable, Paragraph 10 above, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious. 22. Prompt Acceptance of Agreement. The Restricted Share Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date. 23. Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation. The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Share Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Share Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means or to request Awardee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of restricted share unit grants and the execution of restricted share unit agreements through electronic signature. 24. Notices. All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below: Cardinal Health, Inc. 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin, Ohio 43017 Attention: Chief Legal Officer Facsimile: (614)757-6948 All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed 7
sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. By: ________________________________ Its: _______________________________ 8
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders, and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan; (b) accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Share Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the obligations and covenants set forth in paragraphs 4 through 7 above and, if applicable, paragraph 10 above; (c) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement; (d) represents and warrants to the Company that he or she is purchasing the Restricted Share Units for his or her own account, for investment, and not with a view to or any present intention of selling or distributing the Restricted Share Units either now or at any specific or determinable future time or period or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of any predetermined or reasonably foreseeable event; and (e) agrees that no transfer of the Shares delivered in respect of the Restricted Share Units shall be made unless the Shares have been duly registered under all applicable Federal and state securities laws pursuant to a then-effective registration which contemplates the proposed transfer or unless the Company has received a written opinion of, or satisfactory to, its legal counsel that the proposed transfer is exempt from such registration. [________________________________ Awardee's Signature ________________________________ Awardee's Social Security Number ________________________________ Date] 9

Exhibit 10.06 FIRST AMENDMENT THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO THE RETENTION AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made as of November 2, 2005 by and among ALARIS Medical Systems, Inc., (which has been given the legal designation of Cardinal Health 303, Inc.) a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and David L. Schlotterbeck (the "Employee," and, together with the Company, the "Parties"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, the Parties are the parties to a Retention Agreement dated August 31, 2004 (the "Agreement"), and desire to amend the Agreement as set forth herein (all capitalized terms set forth in this Amendment but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement). NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties agree as follows: 1. Target Date. The Agreement is hereby amended to provide that all references to the "Target Date" (other than those in Section 1 of the Agreement, which shall continue to refer to June 28, 2006) shall refer to January 25, 2008, and the definition of Target Date in Section 1 of the Agreement shall be superseded by this Section 1 of this Amendment and deemed deleted. Nothing in this First Amendment to the Retention Agreement shall modify the vesting and termination payment provisions with respect to the Retention Bonus in the Agreement. 2. Section 1. Section 1 is hereby amended to provide that if the Retention Bonus is earned, it shall, instead of being paid within 15 days following June 28, 2006, be paid (with interest accruing from June 28, 2006 through the Retention Bonus Deferred Payment Date at the RATE OF 6.00%) as soon as practicable following the first to occur of (x) the Employee's death or (y) within 15 days following the first date after June 30, 2008 on which Employee could be paid the Retention Bonus without the Company being subject to the limitations on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code. The final sentence of Section 1 of the Agreement shall be restated in its entirety as follows: "In addition, if at anytime after June 28, 2006 (the "Target Date") the Employee voluntarily departs from the Company, the Company shall pay to the Employee a one time lump sum cash bonus equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Employee's base annual pay as of the date of termination, as soon as practicable following the date of termination (or if the Employee is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code), the six-month anniversary of the date of termination)." 3. 2008 Payouts. In the event that the Employee terminates employment on or subsequent to the Target Date (during the fiscal year concluding on June 30, 2008), the Employee shall be entitled to receive (1) at the same time that annual bonuses are distributed to other participants in the annual bonus plan in which the Employee is participating for such fiscal year, a prorated bonus payment (calculated based on application of the same factors that the Company utilizes with respect to annual bonuses of similarly situated plan participants for such fiscal year), and (2) at the same time any cash incentive payments are distributed to participants in any then applicable cash incentive plans (in addition to the annual bonus plan) in which the Employee is then participating, a prorated cash payout of an amount (calculated based on application
of the same factors that the Company utilizes with respect to similarly situated plan participants with respect to such plan). In the event the Employee receives any payments pursuant to this paragraph, each such payment shall be in lieu of any payment to which the Employee may be entitled with respect to the applicable annual bonus or other cash incentive plans. The parties will work in good faith to establish the specific provisions of any incentive awards potentially subject to this paragraph in a manner that avoids imposition of taxes pursuant to Section 409A. 4. Section 4(b)(ii). The Agreement is hereby amended to provide that Section 4(b)(ii) thereof shall have no application with respect to any Payment Termination that occurs subsequent to June 28, 2006. 5. Miscellaneous. This Amendment may be executed by facsimile and in one or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement. Except as expressly amended hereby, the terms and conditions of the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the choice of law and dispute resolution provisions of the Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Parties have executed the foregoing Amendment as of the 2nd day of November, 2005. CARDINAL HEALTH 303, INC. By: /s/ George L. Fotiades -------------------------- Name: George L. Fotiades Title: President and Chief Operating Officer Cardinal Health, Inc. /s/ David L. Schlotterbeck ------------------------------------- David L. Schlotterbeck 2

Exhibit 10.07 DIRECTORS' STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT UNDER THE AMENDED AND RESTATED EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN, AS AMENDED Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has granted to _____________ (the "Grantee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase _____ Common Shares, without par value (the "Shares"), of the Company for a total purchase price of $__________ (i.e., the equivalent of $____ for each full Share). The Option has been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and shall include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the following provisions of this agreement. Capitalized terms used herein which are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Option, unless previously forfeited, shall vest and become exercisable on ___________, and shall expire on ___________. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), the Option shall vest in full. Section 1. Method of Exercise. At any time when the Option is exercisable under the Plan, the Option shall be exercisable from time to time by written notice to the Company (the date such notice is received by the Company, the "Exercise Date") which shall: (a) state that the Option is thereby being exercised, the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised, each person in whose name any certificates for the Shares should be registered and his or her address and social security number; (b) be signed by the person or persons entitled to exercise the Option and, if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than the Grantee, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all applicable laws and regulations; and (c) contain such representations, warranties and agreements with respect to the investment intent of such person or persons in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Company. Section 2. Payment of Exercise Price. The full exercise price for the Option shall be paid to the Company: (i) in cash, (ii) by delivery of Shares with a fair market value equal to the total exercise price at the time of exercise, (iii) by attestation of ownership of such already-owned Shares, (iv) by delivery of cash on the extension of credit by a broker-dealer to whom the Grantee (or other person authorized to exercise the Option) has submitted a notice of exercise or an irrevocable election to effect such extension of credit, or (v) by a combination of the preceding methods. Any Shares delivered or attested to in payment of an exercise price shall be valued as of the Exercise Date. Section 3. Transferability. The Option shall be transferable (I) at the Grantee's death, by the Grantee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by the Grantee during the Grantee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces, or nephews of the Grantee, or any other persons sharing the Grantee's household (other than tenants or employees) (collectively, "Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of the Grantee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which the Grantee or such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which the Grantee or
such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited, except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in Subsections II(a), (b), or (c), above, with respect to the original Grantee. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting interests are owned by the Grantee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within ten days of any transfer, the Grantee shall notify the Stock Option Administrator of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this agreement, references to the original Grantee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of Grantee's termination of service on the Board provided in Section 4 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Grantee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in Section 4. The conduct prohibited of Grantee in Section 5 hereof shall continue to be prohibited of Grantee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from the Grantee to the same extent as would have been the case of the Grantee had the Option not been transferred. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of the Option of the Grantee's termination of service on the Board for any reason. The Grantee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of Section 5 of this agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 13(d) of the Plan following transfer of the Option. Section 4. Termination of Service on the Board. (a) Termination of Service by Death. If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board by reason of death, any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death. The Option may thereafter be exercised by any transferee of Grantee, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Grantee under the will of Grantee until expiration of the original term of the Option. (b) Other Termination of Service. If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board for any reason other than death, any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of termination of service on the Board will automatically terminate on the date of such termination of service. Any unexercised portion of the Option which otherwise is exercisable by the Grantee (or any transferee) shall remain exercisable until expiration of the original term of the Option; provided, however, that upon the discharge of the Grantee as a Director of the Company for Cause (as defined in the Plan), the Option (whether then held by Grantee or any transferee) shall immediately lapse and be of no further force or effect. Section 5. Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules. For so long as Grantee continues as a Director of the Company and for three years following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, Grantee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Grantee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the definition of such conduct below, then: (a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and (b) the Grantee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by the Grantee or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference 2
between the market value of the Shares underlying the Option on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Shares underlying the Option), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), less $1.00. If Grantee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Board, but including any period between the time of Grantee's termination of service on the Board and the time Grantee engaged in Competitor Triggering Conduct. As used herein, "Triggering Conduct" shall include disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties as a Director of the Company any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Company or its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"); violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by the Grantee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer, or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the twelve (12) months prior to the termination of employment or service with the Cardinal Group; any action by Grantee and/or Grantee's representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Grantee; and breaching any provision of any benefit or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used herein, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Grantee's service as a Director or within one year following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor") including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Grantee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Grantee's service as a Director of the Company and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. For purposes of this agreement, the nature and extent of Grantee's activities, if any, disclosed to and reviewed by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board (the "Nominating Committee") prior to the date of Grantee's termination of service on the Board shall not, unless specified to the contrary by the Nominating Committee in a written notice given to Grantee, be deemed to be Competitor Triggering Conduct. The Committee shall resolve in good faith any disputes concerning whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, and any such determination by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The Grantee may be released from Grantee's obligations under this Section 5 only if the Committee (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this Section 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. However, this Section 5 does prohibit certain conduct while Grantee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this agreement under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the Grantee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Grantee agrees to provide the Company with at least ten (10) days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Section 5 and of the Grantee's continuing obligations contained herein. 3
No provision of this agreement shall diminish, negate, or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Grantee may be a party, including but not limited to the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this agreement, the provisions of this agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Grantee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Section 5 are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Grantee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of exposing Grantee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Grantee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Grantee, and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Grantee without including the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in this Section 5 are ancillary to or part of an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made. Section 6. Right of Set-Off. By accepting this Option, the Grantee consents to a deduction from and set-off against any amounts owed to the Grantee by the Company from time to time (including but not limited to amounts owed to the Grantee as Director fees, severance payments, or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Company by the Grantee under this agreement. Section 7. Restrictions on Exercise. The Option is subject to all restrictions in this agreement or in the Plan. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Grantee or his or her transferee or successor to make such representation and warranties and to enter into such agreements as are necessary to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters reasonably requested by counsel for the Company. Section 8. Governing Law/Venue. This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the Option and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of the agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Grantee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Section 5 of this agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect the Grantee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that, in the event of any violation by Grantee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Grantee, and Grantee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Company hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Company to institute legal proceedings under this agreement, Grantee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction 4
to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this agreement. Section 9. Action by the Committee. The parties agree that the interpretation of this agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Committee. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Committee with regard to the interpretation of this agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this agreement. The Committee may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Company designated by the Committee (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Committee or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, or such other material as the Committee or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Committee or its designee and that any decision of the Committee or its designee relating to this agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. DATE OF GRANT: By: __________________________ Its: _________________________ 5
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT The Grantee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is attached to this Agreement, and represents that he/she is familiar with all provisions of the Plan; and (b) accepts this Agreement and the Option granted to him/her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement. The Grantee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders and a copy of the Plan Description dated ___________, pertaining to the Plan. ___________________________ Grantee Signature ___________________________ Social Security Number 6

Exhibit 10.08 DIRECTORS' STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT UNDER THE AMENDED AND RESTATED OUTSIDE DIRECTORS EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has granted to _____________ (the "Grantee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase _____ Common Shares, without par value (the "Shares"), of the Company for a total purchase price of $__________ (i.e., the equivalent of $____ for each full Share). The Option has been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Outside Directors Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and shall include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the following provisions of this agreement. Capitalized terms used herein which are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Option, unless previously forfeited, shall vest and become exercisable on ___________, and shall expire on _____________. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), the Option shall vest in full. Section 1. Method of Exercise. At any time when the Option is exercisable under the Plan, the Option shall be exercisable from time to time by written notice to the Company (the date such notice is received by the Company, the "Exercise Date") which shall: (a) state that the Option is thereby being exercised, the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised, each person in whose name any certificates for the Shares should be registered and his or her address and social security number; (b) be signed by the person or persons entitled to exercise the Option and, if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than the Grantee, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all applicable laws and regulations; and (c) contain such representations, warranties and agreements with respect to the investment intent of such person or persons in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Company. Section 2. Payment of Exercise Price. The full exercise price for the Option shall be paid to the Company: (i) in cash, (ii) by delivery of Shares with a fair market value equal to the total exercise price at the time of exercise, (iii) by attestation of ownership of such already-owned Shares, (iv) by delivery of cash on the extension of credit by a broker-dealer to whom the Grantee (or other person authorized to exercise the Option) has submitted a notice of exercise or an irrevocable election to effect such extension of credit, or (v) by a combination of the preceding methods. Any Shares delivered or attested to in payment of an exercise price shall be valued as of the Exercise Date. Section 3. Transferability. The Option shall be transferable (I) at the Grantee's death, by the Grantee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by the Grantee during the Grantee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces, or nephews of the Grantee, or any other persons sharing the Grantee's household (other than tenants or employees) (collectively, "Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of the Grantee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which the Grantee or
such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which the Grantee or such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited, except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in Subsections II(a), (b), or (c), above, with respect to the original Grantee. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting interests are owned by the Grantee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within ten days of any transfer, the Grantee shall notify the Stock Option Administrator of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this agreement, references to the original Grantee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of Grantee's termination of service on the Board provided in Section 4 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Grantee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in Section 4. The conduct prohibited of Grantee in Section 5 hereof shall continue to be prohibited of Grantee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from the Grantee to the same extent as would have been the case of the Grantee had the Option not been transferred. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of the Option of the Grantee's termination of service on the Board for any reason. The Grantee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of Section 5 of this agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 10(d) of the Plan following transfer of the Option. Section 4. Termination of Service on the Board. (a) Termination of Service by Death. If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board by reason of death, any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death. The Option may thereafter be exercised by any transferee of Grantee, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Grantee under the will of Grantee until expiration of the original term of the Option. (b) Other Termination of Service. If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board for any reason other than death, any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of termination of service on the Board will automatically terminate on the date of such termination of service. Any unexercised portion of the Option which otherwise is exercisable by the Grantee (or any transferee) shall remain exercisable until expiration of the original term of the Option; provided, however, that upon the discharge of the Grantee as a Director of the Company for Cause (as defined below), the Option (whether then held by Grantee or any transferee) shall immediately lapse and be of no further force or effect. For purposes of this agreement, "Cause" means on account of any act of fraud or intentional misrepresentation or embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets of the Company or any subsidiary, or the intentional and repeated violation of the written policies or procedures of the Company. Section 5. Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules. For so long as Grantee continues as a Director of the Company and for three years following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, Grantee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Grantee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the definition of such conduct below, then: (a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been 2
exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and (b) the Grantee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by the Grantee or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the market value of the Shares underlying the Option on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Shares underlying the Option), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), less $1.00. If Grantee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Board, but including any period between the time of Grantee's termination of service on the Board and the time Grantee engaged in Competitor Triggering Conduct. As used herein, "Triggering Conduct" shall include disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties as a Director of the Company any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Company or its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"); violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by the Grantee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer, or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the twelve (12) months prior to the termination of employment or service with the Cardinal Group; any action by Grantee and/or Grantee's representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Grantee; and breaching any provision of any benefit or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used herein, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Grantee's service as a Director or within one year following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor") including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Grantee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Grantee's service as a Director of the Company and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. For purposes of this agreement, the nature and extent of Grantee's activities, if any, disclosed to and reviewed by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board (the "Nominating Committee") prior to the date of Grantee's termination of service on the Board shall not, unless specified to the contrary by the Nominating Committee in a written notice given to Grantee, be deemed to be Competitor Triggering Conduct. The Committee shall resolve in good faith any disputes concerning whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, and any such determination by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The Grantee may be released from Grantee's obligations under this Section 5 only if the Committee (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this Section 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. However, this Section 5 does prohibit certain conduct while Grantee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this agreement under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the Grantee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Grantee agrees to provide the Company with at least ten (10) days written notice prior to 3
directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Section 5 and of the Grantee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provision of this agreement shall diminish, negate, or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Grantee may be a party, including but not limited to the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this agreement, the provisions of this agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Grantee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Section 5 are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Grantee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of exposing Grantee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Grantee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Grantee, and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Grantee without including the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in this Section 5 are ancillary to or part of an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made. Section 6. Right of Set-Off. By accepting this Option, the Grantee consents to a deduction from and set-off against any amounts owed to the Grantee by the Company from time to time (including but not limited to amounts owed to the Grantee as Director fees, severance payments, or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Company by the Grantee under this agreement. Section 7. Restrictions on Exercise. The Option is subject to all restrictions in this agreement or in the Plan. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Grantee or his or her transferee or successor to make such representation and warranties and to enter into such agreements as are necessary to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters reasonably requested by counsel for the Company. Section 8. Governing Law/Venue. This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the Option and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of the agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Grantee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Section 5 of this agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect the Grantee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that, in the event of any violation by Grantee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Grantee, and Grantee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and 4
remedies afforded the Company hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Company to institute legal proceedings under this agreement, Grantee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this agreement. Section 9. Action by the Committee. The parties agree that the interpretation of this agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Committee. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Committee with regard to the interpretation of this agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this agreement. The Committee may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Company designated by the Committee (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Committee or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, or such other material as the Committee or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Committee or its designee and that any decision of the Committee or its designee relating to this agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. DATE OF GRANT: By: _______________________________ Its: ______________________________ 5
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT The Grantee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is attached to this Agreement, and represents that he/she is familiar with all provisions of the Plan; and (b) accepts this Agreement and the Option granted to him/her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement. The Grantee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders and a copy of the Plan Description dated _________, pertaining to the Plan. _____________________________ Grantee Signature _____________________________ Social Security Number 6

Exhibit 10.09 DIRECTORS' RESTRICTED SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT UNDER THE AMENDED AND RESTATED OUTSIDE DIRECTORS EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN On _____________ (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has granted to _________ ("Grantee") ________ Restricted Share Units (the "Restricted Share Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") to Grantee as set forth herein. The Restricted Share Units have been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Outside Directors Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Share Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. 1. Vesting. Subject to the provisions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full (100%) on __________ (the "Vesting Date"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full. 2. Transferability. The Restricted Share Units shall not be transferable. 3. Termination of Service on the Board. If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board prior to the vesting of the Restricted Share Units for any reason other than Grantee's death, all of the then unvested Restricted Share Units shall be forfeited by Grantee. If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board prior to the vesting of the Restricted Share Units by reason of Grantee's death, then such Restricted Share Units shall vest in full and not be forfeited. 4. Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules. For so long as Grantee continues as a Director of the Company and for three years following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, Grantee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Grantee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" below, then: (a) any Restricted Share Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and (b) Grantee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Grantee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Share Units pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Share Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Grantee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Grantee's termination of
service on the Board, but including any period between the time of Grantee's termination of service on the Board and the time Grantee engaged in Competitor Triggering Conduct. As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties as a Director of the Company any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Company or its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"); violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by the Grantee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer, or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the twelve (12) months prior to the termination of employment or service with the Cardinal Group; any action by Grantee and/or Grantee's representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Grantee; and breaching any provision of any benefit or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Grantee's service as a Director or within one year following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor") including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Grantee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Grantee's service as a Director of the Company and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. For purposes of this Agreement, the nature and extent of Grantee's activities, if any, disclosed to and reviewed by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board (the "Nominating Committee") prior to the date of Grantee's termination of service on the Board shall not, unless specified to the contrary by the Nominating Committee in a written notice given to Grantee, be deemed to be Competitor Triggering Conduct. The Committee shall resolve in good faith any disputes concerning whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, and any such determination by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The Grantee may be released from Grantee's obligations under this Paragraph 4 only if the Committee (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this Paragraph 4 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. However, this Paragraph 4 does prohibit certain conduct while Grantee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the Grantee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Grantee agrees to provide the Company with at least ten days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 4 and of the Grantee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provision of this Agreement shall diminish, negate, or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Grantee may be a party, including but not limited to the then-most recent version of the Certificate of 2
Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Grantee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Paragraph 4 are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Grantee's receipt of the Restricted Share Units, in consideration of exposing Grantee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Grantee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Share Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Grantee, and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Share Units to Grantee without including the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in this Paragraph 4 are ancillary to or part of an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made. 5. Payment. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Agreement, on the [VESTING PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: date of vesting of the Restricted Share Units] [DEFERRED PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: [___-month][___-year] anniversary of the first date on which Grantee ceases to be a director of the Company (unless such cessation does not constitute a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and the regulations thereunder, in which case the settlement contemplated by this paragraph shall occur on the first date that does so constitute a "separation from service")], Grantee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Grantee) the Shares represented by [VESTING PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: such Restricted Share Units] [DEFERRED PAYMENT ALTERNATIVE: the then-vested Restricted Share Units; provided, however, that, subject to the next sentence, in the event that some or all of the Restricted Share Units vest prior to the Vesting Date as a result of the death of Grantee or as a result of a Change of Control, Grantee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date of such vesting. Notwithstanding the proviso of the preceding sentence, if Restricted Share Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Change of Control under circumstances where such occurrence would not qualify as a permissible date of distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, such proviso shall not apply and Grantee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that would have applied absent such proviso]. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to procedures established by the Committee in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. 6. Dividends. Grantee shall not receive cash dividends on the Restricted Share Units but instead shall receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the earlier of the termination or forfeiture of this grant in accordance with the terms hereof or the payment described in Paragraph 5 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividends that would have been paid on the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units. 7. Right of Set-Off. By accepting these Restricted Share Units, Grantee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Grantee by the Company from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Grantee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Company by Grantee under this Agreement. 3
8. No Shareholder Rights. Grantee shall have no rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Share Units, including, without limitation, Grantee shall not have the right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units. 9. Beneficiary Designation. Grantee may designate a beneficiary to receive any Shares to which the Grantee is entitled with respect to the Restricted Share Units which vest as a result of Grantee's death. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Grantee engages in Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct as herein defined, the Restricted Share Units subject to such beneficiary designation shall be subject to the Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules and the Company's Right of Set-Off or other right of recovery set forth in this Agreement, and all rights of the beneficiary shall be subordinated to the rights of the Company pursuant to such provisions of this Agreement. Grantee acknowledges that the Company may exercise all rights under this Agreement and the Plan against Grantee and Grantee's estate, heirs, lineal descendants and personal representatives and shall not be limited to exercising its rights against Grantee's beneficiary. 10. Governing Law/Venue. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Share Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of the Agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Grantee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraph 4 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect the Grantee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that, in the event of any violation by Grantee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Grantee, and Grantee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Company hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Company to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Grantee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement. 11. Action by the Committee. The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Committee. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Committee with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Committee may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the Company designated by the Committee (hereinafter the "Designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Committee or its Designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, or such other material as the Committee or its Designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Committee 4
or its Designee and that any decision of the Committee or its Designee relating to this Agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious. 12. Prompt Acceptance of Agreement. The Restricted Share Units grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Committee, be forfeited if this Agreement is not executed by Grantee and returned to the Company within 30 days of the Grant Date set forth below. CARDINAL HEALTH, INC. DATE OF GRANT: By: ___________________________ Its:___________________________ 5
ACCEPTANCE OF AGREEMENT Grantee hereby: (a) acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders, and a copy of the Plan Description dated ___________ pertaining to the Plan; (b) accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Share Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement; (c) represents and warrants to the Company that he or she is purchasing the Restricted Share Units for his or her own account, for investment, and not with a view to or any present intention of selling or distributing the Restricted Share Units either now or at any specific or determinable future time or period or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of any predetermined or reasonably foreseeable event; and (d) agrees that no transfer of the Shares delivered in respect of the Restricted Share Units shall be made unless the Shares have been duly registered under all applicable Federal and state securities laws pursuant to a then-effective registration which contemplates the proposed transfer or unless the Company has received a written opinion of, or satisfactory to, its legal counsel that the proposed transfer is exempt from such registration. ________________________________ Grantee's Signature ________________________________ Date 6

Exhibit 99.01 logo CARDINAL HEALTH 7000 Cardinal Place Dublin,OH 43017 www.cardinalhealth.com FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACTS: Media: Jim Mazzola Investors: Jason Strohm (614) 757-3690 (614) 757-7542 jim.mazzola@cardinal.com jason.strohm@cardinal.com CARDINAL HEALTH CHAIRMAN REVIEWS FISCAL 2005, LOOKS TO FUTURE AT ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS' MEETING Shareholders Approve Three Proposals DUBLIN, OHIO, NOV. 2, 2005 -- At the annual meeting of Cardinal Health's shareholders today, Chairman and Chief Executive Robert D. Walter highlighted the company's improved performance during the second half of fiscal 2005 and outlined its strategy to deliver even greater value to customers through integrated offerings that help solve some of the most pressing issues in health care. "Fiscal 2005 will be remembered as a year in which Cardinal Health faced challenges and emerged as a stronger, more focused company--one better positioned to deliver greater value to customers and shareholders," Walter said. "The health-care industry is searching for innovative solutions that make medicine more effective, patient outcomes more predictable and supply chains more efficient. This is what Cardinal Health does best, and how we are increasingly differentiating the company from competitors." Cardinal Health shareholders also approved the three proposals on the agenda for the meeting: o BOARD ELECTIONS: Current directors J. Michael Losh, John B. McCoy, Michael D. O'Halleran, Jean G. Spaulding and Matthew D. Walter were elected to serve another three-year term; o LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN: Shareholders approved the company's long-term incentive plan, which enables Cardinal Health to continue to grant equity awards as part of its competitive compensation program. o ANNUAL ELECTION OF DIRECTORS: Cardinal Health will phase out the "staggered" or "classified" election of its directors beginning at the company's 2006 Annual Meeting. The company believes that the annual election of directors will have the effect of increasing the Board's accountability to shareholders and further advance its goal of ensuring sound corporate governance. -more-
CARDINAL HEALTH CHAIRMAN REVIEWS FISCAL 2005, LOOKS TO FUTURE AT ANNUAL SHAREHOLDERS' MEETING PAGE 2 In addition, the board of directors today elected a new director, Calvin Darden, a retired executive of United Parcel Service, who also serves on the boards of Target Corporation and Coca-Cola Enterprises. The board also declared the company's 85th consecutive dividend, which will be $0.06 per common share and paid out on January 15, 2006 to shareholders of record as of January 1, 2006. FISCAL 2005 HIGHLIGHTS In his Chairman's Report delivered during the meeting, Mr. Walter highlighted a number of fiscal 2005 accomplishments, including: o Strong demand for the company's market-leading products and services, with revenue for the full year increasing 15 percent to $74.9 billion. o Operating earnings of nearly $1.8 billion, and more than $2 billion excluding special items.* o Leading the industry in reaching new "fee-for-service" distribution agreements with more than 100 of the world's most important pharmaceutical companies. o Successfully integrating its $2 billion acquisition of Alaris Medical Systems. o Making substantial progress in strengthening its controls, compliance and governance practices. o Implementing its One Cardinal Health program designed to better align company operations and deliver more integrated solutions for its health-care provider customers. o Generating significant cash flow totaling nearly $2.9 billion from operations -- giving the company enormous strategic flexibility and the resources to continue investing for the future. ABOUT CARDINAL HEALTH Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $75 billion, global company serving the health-care industry with a broad portfolio of products and services. Through its diverse offering, Cardinal Health delivers integrated health-care solutions that help customers reduce their costs, improve efficiency and deliver better care to patients. The company manufactures, packages and distributes pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, offers a range of clinical services and develops automation products that improve the management and delivery of supplies and medication for hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies. Ranked No. 16 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 55,000 people on six continents. More information about the company may be found at www.cardinalhealth.com. ### * Special items for fiscal 2005 were $264 million Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form 10-Q reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: the costs, difficulties, and uncertainties related to the implementation of organizational changes and the integration of acquired businesses; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings; the impact of previously announced restatements; difficulties or delays or increased costs in implementing its global restructuring program, including facility rationalizations; difficulties in opening new facilities or fully utilizing existing capacity; difficulties and uncertainties associated with business model transitions; and general economic and market conditions. Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.


