FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20050805091648.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     Portions of this Form 8-K of Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these risks, uncertainties and other factors are described in the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004 (including in the section titled "Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results" within "Item 1: Business") and in Exhibit 99.01 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended December 31, 2004 and include (but are not limited to) the following: the costs, difficulties, and uncertainties related to the integration of acquired businesses; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings; the impact of previously announced restatements; difficulties, delays or additional costs in implementing the Company's global restructuring program; difficulties in opening new facilities or fully utilizing existing capacity; difficulties and uncertainties associated with business model transitions, including the conversion of margin generated from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to non-contingent consideration; and general economic and market conditions. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     In the proxy statement for its 2004 annual meeting of shareholders, the Company disclosed that it had discovered in 2004 that a portion of an option to purchase 1,425,000 of the Company's common shares, without par value (giving effect to stock splits occurring after the date of grant), that had been granted in November 1999 to Robert D. Walter, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, was in excess of that permitted to be granted to a single individual during any fiscal year under the Company's Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan (the "Equity Incentive Plan"). The maximum number of common shares as to which option awards could be granted pursuant to the terms of the Equity Incentive Plan was 562,500 common shares (although the Company would have been permitted at the time to make a larger grant outside of such Equity Incentive Plan).
     In order to satisfy the original intent and understanding of the Company with respect to the 1999 option award, and after consulting with its outside compensation consultant, on August 2, 2005, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") approved a grant to Mr. Walter, in lieu of the portion of the 1999 option award in excess of the share limitation and in full satisfaction of any claims with respect to such portion, of a deferred payment stock appreciation right (the "SAR") with respect to 862,500 common shares. Following ratification by the Board of Directors, the agreement between Mr. Walter and the Company setting forth the terms of the SAR grant (the "SAR Agreement") was executed on August 3, 2005. Under the terms of the SAR Agreement, upon exercise of the SAR, Mr. Walter will become entitled to receive cash in an amount equal to the fair market value per underlying common share on the date of exercise minus $31.167, the original exercise price of the 1999 option award, multiplied by the number of common shares as to which the SAR is being exercised. Consistent with the fact that the 1999 option award is fully vested, the SAR is fully vested and has a term expiring on November 15, 2009, the expiration date of the 1999 option award (or, if earlier, on the six-month anniversary of Mr. Walter's termination of employment). In order to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), and to avoid potential loss to the Company of a tax deduction under Section 162(m) of the Code, any payment due to Mr. Walter will be deferred until six months following his termination of employment, and will be credited with interest at the Prime Rate from the date of exercise until the payment date. Any such payment will be subject to applicable tax withholding. The SAR Agreement contains a confirmation and agreement by Mr. Walter and the Company that the portion
 
of the 1999 option award in excess of the share limitation is null and void. The 1999 option to purchase 562,500 common shares which was not in excess of the maximum number permitted under the Equity Incentive Plan remains outstanding and continues to be governed by the terms of the original option agreement. The SAR Agreement also provides for reimbursement of certain legal fees incurred by Mr. Walter in connection with the SAR and a March 2005 deferred payment stock appreciation right grant.
     The SAR Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this report and the description of the SAR Agreement in this report is qualified in its entirety by reference to the exhibit.
     On August 3, 2005, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Company's Board of Directors revised the terms of the compensation to be paid to non-management directors for their service on the Board. A summary describing the elements of non-management director compensation and benefits is filed as Exhibit 10.02 to this report.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     The information set forth under this "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished and such information, including the exhibits furnished under this report, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
     On August 5, 2005, the Company issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2005. A copy of the press release is furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.01.
     Furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.02 is a discussion of the reasons why management believes that presenting results that exclude the impact of special charges provides a useful representation of the Company's current performance and trends.
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
     As previously announced, the Company has launched a global restructuring program associated with its "One Cardinal Health" initiative with a goal of increasing the value the Company provides its customers through better integration of existing businesses and improved efficiency from a more disciplined approach to procurement and resource allocation. In December 2004, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had authorized the Company to incur certain costs associated with exit or disposal activities and asset impairments in connection with the first phase of the global restructuring program ("Phase I"). The total costs associated with Phase I were originally expected to be approximately $300 million to $350 million. More recently, the Company has determined that the total costs associated with Phase I are expected to be approximately $315 million, with approximately $225 million in total costs incurred to date under Phase I.
     On August 3, 2005, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to incur certain costs associated with exit or disposal activities and asset impairments in connection with the second phase of the global restructuring program ("Phase II"). The total costs associated with Phase II are expected to be approximately $80 million to $100 million, of which approximately $9 million was expensed in fiscal 2005 (mostly for severance, which was accrued as a defined severance plan exists), approximately $45 million to $58 million are expected to be incurred in fiscal 2006, approximately $17 million to $21
 
million are expected to be incurred in fiscal 2007, and the remaining costs are expected to be incurred beyond fiscal 2007. Approximately $79 million to $99 million of the total costs for Phase II are expected to result in future cash expenditures. The Phase II costs include non-cash asset impairment charges of approximately $1 million primarily related to exiting a portion of certain facilities. Such impairment charges will be recognized as incurred and reflected in the Company's statement of earnings as a special item. The Company expects Phase II to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2008.
     Aggregate costs associated with Phase II of approximately $79 million to $98 million are expected to be incurred for shared service initiatives and other projects that impact global staffing functions as well as for projects that impact multiple reporting segments. The major types of costs associated with Phase II are expected to be as follows:
Item 2.06 Material Impairments
     See the information in Item 2.05 above.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.01
 
     Shares with equivalent value.
 
Grant Date: August 3, 2005
Exercise Price: $31.167
Grant Expiration Date: November 15, 2009
The Company has granted to Grantee a SAR relating to 862,500 Shares having an aggregate exercise price of $26,881,537.50 (i.e., the equivalent of $31.167 for each full Share). The SAR has been independently approved and granted by the Committee and ratified by the Board of Directors of the Company and is subject to the provisions of this agreement. This SAR shall be exercisable at any time on or after August 3, 2005 and prior to the earlier of (i) November 15, 2009 or (ii) the Payment Date (as defined below).
 
1. .
Method of Exercise, Payment of Price, and Cash Settlement
(a) . At any time when the SAR is exercisable under this agreement, the SAR may be exercised from time to time, in whole or in part but always in increments of full Shares, by written notice to the Company which will:
Method of Exercise
          (i) state the number of Shares with respect to which the SAR is being exercised; and
          (ii) if the SAR is being exercised by anyone other than Grantee, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the SAR under this agreement and all applicable laws and regulations.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the SAR will be automatically exercised on the Payment Date or, if earlier, the Grant Expiration Date without any written notice to the Company or any action by Grantee to the extent not already exercised prior thereto.
(b) . No payment to the Company is necessary upon exercise of the SAR. However, any payment to Grantee will be subject to any required tax withholding as provided in Section 10(a).
Payment of Price
(c) . Upon exercise of the SAR, Grantee will be entitled to receive a cash payment, paid out at such time and in accordance with Section 1(d), equal to the product of (i) the excess of the last sale price of one Share on the exercise date (or, if no sale of Shares occurs on such date, on the next preceding date on which a sale occurred) as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape over the Exercise Price, times (ii) the number of Shares as to which Grantee is exercising the SAR (the result of such product, the "").
Settlement
SAR Spread
(d) . Grantee shall receive on the Payment Date, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account specified by Grantee, an amount equal to the SAR Spread credited with any interest on the SAR Spread from, and including, the date of exercise of the SAR to, but excluding, the Payment Date (such amount, the ""). For purposes of the foregoing, the interest rate shall be the "Prime Rate" published in the Wall Street Journal from time to time on the first publication date of each calendar quarter. The interest shall be credited at the end of each calendar quarter (based upon the interest rate published on the first publication date of such calendar quarter) and the resulting balance shall be compounded quarterly; provided that, for the calendar quarter during which the Payment Date occurs, the interest credited shall be prorated based on the number of days in such calendar quarter prior to the Payment Date. The "" shall be the date that is six months after the date of termination of Grantee's employment pursuant to the Employment Agreement between Grantee and the Company dated February 1, 2004 (as it may be amended from time to time, the "").
Payment
SAR Payment
Payment Date
Employment Agreement
2. . The SAR shall be transferable at Grantee's death, by Grantee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution. Following transfer, the SAR shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and,
Transferability
 
except as otherwise provided in this agreement, references to the original Grantee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee.
3. . If Grantee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "") terminates for any reason whether by Grantee or the Company (including, by way of example, termination as a result of death, retirement, Disability, Cause or Good Reason), Grantee (or any transferee, if applicable) will have until the Payment Date or, if earlier, the Grant Expiration Date to exercise any unexercised portion of the SAR. In accordance with Section 1(a), the SAR shall be automatically exercised on the Payment Date or, if earlier, the Grant Expiration Date to the extent not exercised by Grantee (or any transferee, if applicable) prior thereto. Capitalized terms used in this Section 3 but not defined herein have the meaning ascribed to them in the Employment Agreement.
Termination of Relationship
Cardinal Group
4. . The SAR is subject to all restrictions in this agreement. As a condition of any exercise of the SAR, the Company may require Grantee or his transferee or successor to make any representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters reasonably requested by the Company.
Restrictions on Exercise
5. . By accepting this SAR, Grantee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Grantee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Grantee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Grantee under this agreement.
Right of Set-Off
6. . This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the SAR and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Any provision of this agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this agreement.
Governing Law/Venue
7. . (a) The parties agree that the Committee shall have the authority to interpret the terms and provisions of this agreement. The Committee may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Committee (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Committee or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Committee or its designee deems appropriate.
Action by the Committee
(b) Subject to Sections 10(b) and 10(c), the Committee may amend the terms of the SAR at any time; provided no such amendment shall impair the rights of Grantee or transferee with
 
respect to the SAR without the consent of Grantee or transferee, unless it is made to cause the SAR to comply with applicable law, stock exchange rules or accounting rules; and provided, further, the SAR may not be amended so as to decrease the Exercise Price of such SAR to reflect a decrease in the fair market value of the underlying stock.
(c) In the event of any stock dividend, stock split, share combination, corporate separation or division (including, but not limited to, split-up, spin-off, split-off or distribution to the Company's shareholders other than a normal cash dividend), or partial or complete liquidation, or any other corporate transaction or event having any effect similar to any of the foregoing, then the number of Shares subject to the SAR and the exercise price per Share of the SAR, and any other characteristics or terms of the SAR as the Committee shall deem necessary or appropriate to reflect equitably the effects of such changes, shall be appropriately substituted for new shares or adjusted, as determined by the Committee in its discretion.
(d) If any recapitalization, reorganization, reclassification, consolidation, merger of the Company or any sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to another person or entity or other transaction which is effected in such a way that holders of Shares are entitled to receive (either directly or upon subsequent liquidation) stock, securities, or assets with respect to or in exchange for Shares (each an "") shall occur, in lieu of the Shares subject to the SAR, the Committee shall substitute such shares of stock, securities or assets (including cash) as may be issued or payable with respect to or in exchange for the number of Shares immediately theretofore subject to the SAR, after giving effect to any adjustments otherwise required or permitted under this agreement.
Organic Change
8. . The SAR grant evidenced by this agreement shall, at the discretion of the Committee, be forfeited if this agreement is not executed by Grantee and returned to the Company within 90 days of the Grant Date set forth on the first page of this agreement.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
9. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the SAR grant under this agreement by electronic means. Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company.
Electronic Delivery
 
10. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . The Company shall have the right to withhold from any amounts otherwise payable pursuant to Section 1(d) the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to the SAR, without notice.
Tax Withholding
(b) . It is the intention of Grantee and the Company that no tax deduction for payments hereunder be disallowed as a result of the application of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the parties acknowledge that the terms of this agreement are intended to avoid any such disallowance by virtue of Section 162(m). The parties agree that in the event that it is determined that the terms of this Agreement would result in any such disallowance as a result of the application of Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor), they will make reasonable efforts in good faith to agree to modify this agreement in order to avoid any such disallowance in a manner that still achieves as closely as possible the original intent of the parties.
Code Section 162(m)
Code
(c) . It is the intention of Grantee and the Company that this agreement and the payments hereunder comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, and the parties acknowledge that the terms of this agreement are intended to avoid the imposition of any excise tax or penalties by virtue of Section 409A. If at any time Grantee or the Company determines that this agreement or the payments hereunder would fail to comply with the requirements of Section 409A (or any successor), they will make reasonable efforts in good faith to agree to modify this agreement in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A or to exempt such payments from the application of Section 409A in a manner that still achieves as closely as possible the original intent of the parties.
Code Section 409A
(d) . Grantee shall be promptly reimbursed for any and all reasonable expenses (including, without limitation, attorneys' fees and other charges of counsel) incurred by him in connection with the negotiation and documentation of this agreement and the Deferred Payment Stock Appreciation Right Agreement dated March 3, 2005 between Grantee and the Company.
Attorneys' Fees
(e) . The Committee shall establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable in the event of the participant's death are to be paid.
Beneficiaries
(f) . Notwithstanding any provisions of this agreement, the Company's obligations under this agreement shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals as may be required by any governmental or regulatory agencies.
Government Regulation
(g) . In case any one or more of the provisions of this agreement shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provision which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this agreement to be construed so as to foster the intent of this agreement.
Invalidity
 
Grantee hereby: (a) represents that he is familiar with and understands all provisions of this agreement; and (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this agreement and the SAR granted to him under this agreement subject to all provisions of this agreement. Grantee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent Annual Report and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders.

 
Exhibit 10.02
     Non-management members of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") are entitled to receive the following annual retainers, payable quarterly in cash, as applicable, and other compensation and benefits for Board service:
 

 
Exhibit 99.01
 Cardinal Health, Inc., the leading provider of products and services to the health care industry, announced today that fourth-quarter revenue grew 15 percent to a record $19.5 billion, driven by demand from hospitals, pharmacies and drug manufacturers, while operational improvements continued to strengthen earnings and deliver strong cash flow.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Aug. 5, 2005
During the quarter ended June 30, operating earnings declined 9 percent to $532 million from $587 million last year, but continued to strengthen over the first half of fiscal 2005 due to fourth-quarter progress in Cardinal Health's pharmaceutical distribution and Pyxis products businesses. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations declined 27 percent to $0.66 from $0.91 last year. Operating cash flow remained strong, reaching $806 million during the quarter, which reflects $250 million used to reduce borrowings under an accounts receivable securitization program.
"Cardinal Health concluded the year with a solid fourth quarter marked by improved execution in most areas, but most notably in pharmaceutical distribution and Pyxis products," said Robert D. Walter, chairman and chief executive officer. "We continued to generate significant cash flow during the quarter and substantially improved our earnings performance over the first half of the fiscal year. Progress made during the year strengthens our momentum for fiscal 2006."
Cardinal Health said the results announced today are consistent with guidance it provided on June 27.
Excluding special items of $61 million during the quarter, operating earnings declined 5 percent to $593 million compared to $626 million last year, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations declined 20 percent to $0.78 from $0.97 in the prior year. After
 
Cardinal Health Reports Record Revenue and Strong Cash Flow During Fourth Quarter, Earnings Strengthen During Second Half of Fiscal Year Page 2
tax, special items for the quarter totaled $52 million or $0.12 per share. Special items for the quarter include restructuring and merger costs, proceeds from a litigation settlement and legal costs. In addition, after-tax, non-recurring charges for the quarter were $44 million or $0.11 per share versus a gain of $0.01 per share in the prior year. Non-recurring charges for the quarter include asset impairments, costs to resolve an outstanding insurance claim related to natural rubber latex litigation, an inventory write-off for non-pharmaceutical products and a tax provision for a planned Homeland Investment Act repatriation.
For the full year, revenue increased 15 percent to $74.9 billion, while operating earnings declined 24 percent to $1.8 billion and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations declined 29 percent to $2.47 compared to $3.47 last year. Excluding special items of $239 million, operating earnings declined 15 percent to $2 billion compared to $2.4 billion last year, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations declined 19 percent to $2.86 compared to $3.55 last year. In addition, after-tax, non-recurring charges for the year were $132 million or $0.31 per share versus a gain of $0.02 per share in the prior year.
The following table summarizes earnings from continuing operations, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, after-tax special items and after-tax non-recurring charges for Cardinal Health's fourth quarter and fiscal 2005. (See the attached financial tables for a reconciliation of the non-GAAP measures used in this release to their comparable GAAP measures and a schedule of non-recurring charges.)
In addition, consolidated results during the fourth quarter were affected by a number of notable items (described below in Segment Results), including:
 
Cardinal Health Reports Record Revenue and Strong Cash Flow During Fourth Quarter, Earnings Strengthen During Second Half of Fiscal Year Page 3
During fiscal 2005, Cardinal Health expanded its market-leading product and service offerings, improved operations to increase the value it delivers customers and made investments in the business for long-term growth.
Fiscal 2005 Highlights
Significant results for the fiscal year included:
(Special items are not allocated by reporting segment; however segment results were affected by the non-recurring charges and notable one-time items referenced above and described in more detail in the following discussion. Tables with specific segment results for the fourth quarter and fiscal 2005 year-to-date are attached and available at the Investors page on www.cardinalhealth.com.)
Segment Results
 
Cardinal Health Reports Record Revenue and Strong Cash Flow During Fourth Quarter, Earnings Strengthen During Second Half of Fiscal Year Page 4
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services revenue rose 16 percent during the quarter to $15.8 billion. An 18-percent increase in operating earnings to $326 million was due in part to a LIFO accounting credit that lowered the cost of goods sold by $48 million, which was partially offset by inventory write-downs that included a $15 million reserve associated with a generic pharmaceutical manufacturer's bankruptcy.
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
Excluding these items, solid earnings growth was the result of an increase in volume to retail chains and a profitable mix of generic drugs. Return on sales during the second half of the year increased more than 80 basis points over the first half in the segment. Cardinal Health also expanded its industry-leading efficiency levels during the quarter by lowering selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales by 15 basis points within pharmaceutical distribution.
Annual revenues for the segment increased 16 percent to $60.8 billion, while operating earnings declined 1 percent to $1 billion for the year. New distribution service agreements reached during the quarter brought the annual number of new contracts with branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to more than 100. These agreements establish non-contingent fees for the distribution services Cardinal Health provides, helping to reduce earnings volatility in the segment.
Medical Products and Services revenue increased 5 percent during the quarter to $2.5 billion, while operating earnings declined 3 percent to $178 million and were negatively affected by a $12-million non-recurring charge to resolve an outstanding insurance claim related to natural rubber latex litigation. Litigation of this matter is now complete and no additional, related charges are anticipated. In addition, certain corporate costs were reallocated to the segment for financial processing services in both the current and prior year. The amounts reallocated were $4.5 million in the fourth quarter and $4.9 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004.
Medical Products and Services
Sales of Cardinal Health's V.Mueller surgical instruments and Neu-Thera surgeon gloves were strong during the quarter, offset by weakness in Convertors  products. Distribution margins were stable, primarily due to a more favorable mix of private label products. Sales and earnings growth in Europe and Canada continued as important contributors for the segment.
For the year, segment revenue increased 7 percent to $9.8 billion and operating earnings declined 3 percent to $672 million. Operating earnings were lower during the year due to non-recurring charges of $28 million, which includes the fourth-quarter and full-year charges to resolve an outstanding insurance claim related to latex litigation. In addition, the reallocation of corporate costs for financial processing services totaled approximately $18 million in both the current and prior years. Competitive pricing and a significant increase in the cost of raw materials and fuel also contributed to operating-earnings pressure during the year, but was partially offset by disciplined expense-control measures and new sourcing programs. Excluding the non-recurring charge, selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of sales continued to decline from prior-year levels.
 
Cardinal Health Reports Record Revenue and Strong Cash Flow During Fourth Quarter, Earnings Strengthen During Second Half of Fiscal Year Page 5
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services revenue continued to grow during the quarter, up 6 percent to $782 million, driven by oral technologies, nuclear pharmacy services and packaging services. However, ongoing operational issues within sterile manufacturing caused operating earnings to decline 36 percent to $85 million. Earnings during the quarter were affected by an $8 million write-down of sterile inventory and nearly $7 million in costs to operate a sterile manufacturing facility in Humacao, Puerto Rico, that the company previously announced will close later this year.
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
Excluding sterile manufacturing, the segment performed well during the quarter with oral technologies, nuclear pharmacy services, and packaging services growing their combined earnings 8 percent over the prior year. In particular, strong sales and earnings contributions came from the development and manufacturing of oral dosage products, including Wyeth's Advil, Abbott's Kaletra, and Adams Respiratory Therapeutics' Mucinex.
For the year, revenue increased 6 percent to nearly $3 billion and operating earnings declined 28 percent to $337 million primarily related to previously identified issues within sterile manufacturing operations. During the year, investments were made to improve existing manufacturing sites, and new facilities in Raleigh, N.C. and Brussels, Belgium remain on schedule for production in fiscal 2007.
(Results for this segment, which include Cardinal Health's Alaris products, Pyxis products and Clinical Services and Consulting organizations, are being reported for the first time this fiscal year. Prior-year results used in comparisons have been adjusted to include Pyxis and Clinical Services and Consulting, but not Alaris, which was acquired by Cardinal Health in July 2004.)
Clinical Technologies and Services
Hospital and health-system customers continued to select Alaris and Pyxis products over competitors, with strong sales in both product lines contributing to revenue for the quarter of $596 million. Alaris continued to perform well during the quarter and Pyxis operations and installation efficiency improved significantly. As a result, operating earnings improved to $86 million. Earnings were lowered by several one-time items totaling $30 million that include the write-off of certain Pyxis inventory related to a comprehensive product-line rationalization completed during the quarter. A record number of committed contracts for both Alaris and Pyxis led to a record backlog in the segment, establishing strong momentum for fiscal 2006. The Pyxis backlog ended the quarter at $260 million, with 70 percent of orders for its new flagship product, Pyxis MedStation 3000.
For the full year, segment revenue reached $2.2 billion and operating earnings were $273 million. An increasing customer preference for Alaris products moved its intravenous pumps into the market-leading position during 2005, according to an industry report. Operational improvements resulting from the Alaris acquisition met company expectations during its first year as part of Cardinal Health and synergies remain on track to reach $80 million to $100 million of pretax earnings by the end of fiscal year 2007.
Cardinal Health reiterated its fiscal 2006 earnings-per-share outlook of $3.30 to $3.55 excluding special items, non-recurring charges and the impact of incremental equity
Outlook
 
Cardinal Health Reports Record Revenue and Strong Cash Flow During Fourth Quarter, Earnings Strengthen During Second Half of Fiscal Year Page 6
compensation expenses. Over the long term, Cardinal Health expects earnings per share excluding special items, non-recurring charges and incremental equity compensation expenses to grow 12 percent to 15 percent annually with an annual goal of returning 50 percent of operating cash flow to shareholders through share buy-backs and dividends. During the next several years, the company's goal is to increase dividends to up to 20 percent of earnings per share.
Cardinal Health will host a conference call and webcast at 11 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) to discuss the fourth quarter and fiscal year results. To access the discussion, go to the Investors page at www.cardinalhealth.com or dial 706-634-5100, passcode 7436813. An audio replay will be available until 11 p.m. on Aug. 12 at 706-645-9291, passcode 7436813. A transcript and audio replay will also be available at www.cardinalhealth.com.
Conference Call
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is the leading provider of products and services supporting the health-care industry. Cardinal Health develops, manufactures, packages and markets products for patient care; develops drug-delivery technologies; distributes pharmaceuticals and medical, surgical and laboratory supplies; and offers consulting and other services that improve quality and efficiency in health care. Ranked No. 16 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 55,000 people on six continents and produces annual revenues of nearly $75 billion. More information about the company may be found at www.cardinalhealth.com.
Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form 10-Q reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: the costs, difficulties, and uncertainties related to the integration of acquired businesses; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings; the impact of previously announced restatements; difficulties or delays or increased costs in implementing its global restructuring program; difficulties in opening new facilities or fully utilizing existing capacity; difficulties and uncertainties associated with business model transitions, including the conversion of margin generated from branded pharmaceutical manufacturers to non-contingent consideration; general economic and market conditions; with respect to future dividends, the decision by the board of directors to declare such dividends, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's surplus, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects at the time any such action is considered; and, with respect to future share repurchases, the approval of the board of directors, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's then-current stock price, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects as well as alternatives available to Cardinal Health at the time any such action is considered. Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
(in millions, except per Common Share amounts)
The following table summarizes the impact of special items on net earnings and diluted earnings per Common Share in the quarters in which they were recorded:
 
(in millions, except per Common Share amounts)
The following table summarizes the impact of special items on net earnings and diluted earnings per Common Share in the years in which they were recorded:
 
(in millions)
 
(in millions)
 
($ millions)
 
($ millions)
 
Margin per Expense Dollar = Ratio of Gross Margin to Expenses
See the GAAP / NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION schedule for the calculations and definitions supporting the balances excluding special items.
 
($ millions)
 
($ millions)
 
Margin per Expense Dollar = Ratio of Gross Margin to Expenses
See the GAAP / NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION schedule for the calculations and definitions supporting the balances excluding special items.
 
($ millions)
The sum of the quarters may not equal year-to-date due to rounding
 
($ millions)
 
Margin Per Expense Dollar = Ratio of Gross Margin to Expenses
The sum of the quarters may not equal year-to-date due to rounding
See the GAAP / NON-GAAP RECONCILIATION schedule for the calculations and definitions supporting the balances excluding special items.
 
($ millions)
 
 
($ millions)
FREE CASH FLOW ($ millions)
DEFINITIONS:
 
(Earnings from continuing operations + special items after tax) /average shareholders' equity
Return on equity (excluding special items) =
Note: Average shareholders' equity used in the return on equity calculation was $8.7 billion and $7.8 billion in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively, and $8.4 billion and $7.5 billion for year to date of fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively.
(Income tax provision + tax effect of special items) / (earnings before income taxes + special items)
Effective tax rate (excluding special items) =
= (Current quarter earnings excluding special items  prior year quarter earnings excluding special items)/ prior year quarter earnings excluding special items
Growth rate (excluding special items)
Current quarter earnings excluding special items / revenue
Ratio to revenue (excluding special items) =
[Operating earnings excluding special items annualized x (1-effective tax rate, excluding special items)] / average (equity +debt + unrecorded goodwill)
Return on invested capital (excluding special items) =
Note: Average unrecorded goodwill used in return on invested capital calculation was $9.7 billion in fiscal 2005 and fiscal 2004.
($ millions)

 
Exhibit 99.02
     Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") incurred special items during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 consisting primarily of restructuring charges of $64.6 million, merger-related charges of $11.4 million and costs related to the Securities Exchange Commission ("SEC") investigation and Audit Committee internal review of $6.0 million. The costs were partially offset by income of $21.2 million received in conjunction with the settlement of litigation arising from antitrust claims alleging certain prescription drug manufacturers took improper actions to delay or prevent generic drug competition. Restructuring charges primarily relate to the previously announced global restructuring program. The costs incurred to date under the global restructuring program primarily consist of employee-related costs, asset impairments and facility exit costs. Merger-related charges include such items as employee-related costs and costs associated with exit and consolidation of facilities, as well as costs of integrating acquired businesses. Costs related to the SEC investigation and Audit Committee internal review primarily include legal fees and document preservation and production costs. On an after-tax basis, the special items incurred during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005 totaled $51.7 million compared to $25.3 million for the year-earlier period. In the opinion of management, these special items, by their nature, rarely have predictable trends and are not truly reflective of ongoing operating results. Therefore, the Company presents its results on both a basis using generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and a basis excluding these special items.
     Management uses the basis excluding these special items to measure its performance in addition to the GAAP results. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use a metric that does not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring items for the Company, management believes they are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate to more strategic, multi-year corporate actions that tend to mask the trends and financial performance of the Company's products and services. Management also believes that investors may also find an unmasked view of the Company's core operations to be useful.
     In addition, the Company has identified certain items that are either infrequent or will aid the reader in analyzing comparability between prior periods. These items include asset impairment charges and losses on sale of fixed assets of $15.0 million, an inventory write-off adjustment of $0.6 million related to an SKU rationalization project within the Company's Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment, an $11.8 million latex receivable write-off within the Company's Medical Products and Services segment, and a $26.3 million charge related to the Homeland Investment Act repatriation tax provision. The Company provided information regarding the impact of each of these items on its consolidated results. The Company believes this information is useful for investors' assessment of the operating trends of the Company's businesses.
     Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the amounts that have been adjusted as a supplemental metric to assist readers. It should be noted that the items being adjusted from the GAAP results represent actual income or expense to the Company. These items impact operating cash flow available to support on-going operations. As such, these items are an important component of the financial performance of the Company and any metric excluding them will present an incomplete picture.


