FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20051003162313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On September 29, 2005, Cardinal Health Funding, LLC ("Funding"), a wholly-owned receivables financing subsidiary of Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company"), entered into an amendment to the Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2004 (as amended from time to time), by and among Funding, as seller, Griffin Capital, LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, as servicer, Preferred Receivables Funding Corporation, Falcon Asset Securitization Corporation and Liberty Street Funding Corp., each as conduits, The Bank of Nova Scotia, individually and as managing agent, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago)), individually and as agent, that extends the term of the facility to September 28, 2006. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or its affiliate serves as trustee under certain of the Company's indentures, participates as a lender, syndication agent, lead arranger and book manager under the Company's 5-year bank revolving credit facilities and participates as a dealer and issuing and paying agent under the Company's commercial paper program. The Bank of Nova Scotia participates as a lender under one of the Company's 5-year bank revolving credit facilities.
     The amendment is filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this report and the description of the amendment in this report is qualified in its entirety by reference to the exhibit.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.01
     This AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT(this ), dated as of September 29, 2005, by and among Cardinal Health Funding, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company, as Seller (), Griffin Capital, LLC, a Nevada limited liability company, as Servicer (), each entity signatory hereto as a Conduit (each a and collectively, the ), each entity signatory hereto as a Financial Institution (each a and, collectively with the Conduits, the ), each entity signatory hereto as a Managing Agent (each a and collectively, the ) and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, NA (Main Office Chicago), as the Agent (the ).
"Amendment"
"Seller"
"Servicer"
"Conduit"
"Conduits"
"Financial Institution"
"Purchasers"
"Managing Agent"
"Managing Agents"
"Agent"
     Seller, Servicer, the Purchasers, the Managing Agents and the Agent have entered into that certain Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2004, as amended by the Omnibus Amendment, dated as of August 18, 2004, as further amended by the Omnibus Limited Waiver and Second Omnibus Amendment thereto, dated as of September 24, 2004, as further amended by the Amendment No. 3 thereto, dated as of September 30, 2004, and as further amended by the Amendment No. 4 thereto, dated as of February 3, 2005 (as heretofore amended, the ).
"Purchase Agreement"
     Seller, Servicer, the Purchasers, the Managing Agents and the Agent now desire to amend the Purchase Agreement upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein contained and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     Section 1. . Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned thereto in the Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby.
Definitions
     Section 2. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the definition of "Liquidity Termination Date" set forth in Exhibit I to the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by amending and restating, in its entirety, such definition where it appears therein to read as follows:
Amendment to Purchase Agreement
     "" means September 28, 2006.
Liquidity Termination Date
 
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
     Section 3. . This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Conditions to Effectiveness of this Amendment
          (a) . The Agent and each Managing Agent shall have received executed counterparts of this Amendment, duly executed by each of the parties hereto.
Amendment
          (b) . As of the date hereof, both before and after giving effect to this Amendment, all of the representations and warranties of Seller and Servicer contained in the Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby, and in each other Transaction Document (other than those that speak expressly only as of a different date) shall be true and correct in all material respects as though made on the date hereof (and by its execution hereof, each of Seller and Servicer shall be deemed to have represented and warranted such).
Representations and Warranties
          (c) . As of the date hereof, both before and after giving effect to this Amendment, no Amortization Event or Potential Amortization Event shall have occurred and be continuing (and by its execution hereof, each of Seller and Servicer shall be deemed to have represented and warranted such).
No Amortization Event
     Section 4. .
Miscellaneous
          (a) . The amendments set forth herein are effective solely for the purposes set forth herein and shall be limited precisely as written, and shall not be deemed to (i) be a consent to, or acknowledgment of, any amendment, waiver or modification of any other term or condition of the Purchase Agreement or of any other instrument or agreement referred to therein; or (ii) prejudice any right or remedy which any Purchaser, each Managing Agent or the Agent (or any of their assigns) may now have or may have in the future under or in connection with the Purchase Agreement or any other instrument or agreement referred to therein. Each reference in the Purchase Agreement to "this Agreement," "herein," "hereof" and words of like import and each reference in the other Transaction Documents to "Receivables Purchase Agreement," the "Purchase Agreement" or the Purchase Agreement shall mean the Purchase Agreement, as amended hereby, as applicable. This Amendment shall be construed in connection with and as part of the Purchase Agreement and all terms, conditions, representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth in the Purchase Agreement and each other instrument or agreement referred to therein, except as herein amended, are hereby ratified and confirmed and shall remain in full force and effect.
Effect; Ratification
          (b) . This Amendment is a Transaction Document executed pursuant to the Purchase Agreement and shall be construed, administered and applied in accordance with the terms and provisions thereof.
Transaction Documents
          (c) . Seller agrees to reimburse the Agent, each Managing Agent and each Purchaser on demand for all costs, fees and expenses incurred by the Agent, each Managing Agent and each Purchaser (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsels to the Agent, each Managing Agent and each Purchaser) incurred in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of this Amendment.
Costs, Fees and Expenses
 
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
          (d) . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart constituting an original and all of which when taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
          (e) . Any provision contained in this Amendment which is held to be inoperative, unenforceable or invalid in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be inoperative, unenforceable or invalid without affecting the remaining provisions of this Amendment in that jurisdiction or the operation, enforceability or validity of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
          (f) . THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.
GOVERNING LAW
          (g) . TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT OF TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AMENDMENT OR ANY MATTER ARISING HEREUNDER OR THEREUNDER.
WAIVER OF TRIAL BY JURY
 
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have caused this Amendment to be executed as of the date first above written.
 
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT
 
AMENDMENT NO. 5 TO RECEIVABLES PURCHASE AGREEMENT


