FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20060803085056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 3, 2006, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.01.
     Furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.02 is a discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
     During a conference call scheduled to be held at 11:00 a.m. EDT on August 3, 2006, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, Jeffrey W. Henderson, will discuss the Company's results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2006. The Company is furnishing Mr. Henderson's slide presentation for the conference call as Exhibit 99.03 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
99.01       Press release issued by the Company on August 3, 2006, and furnished under this report.
99.02       Information released by the Company on August 3, 2006, and furnished under this report.
99.03       Slide presentation furnished under this report.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.01       Press release issued by the Company on August 3, 2006, and furnished under this report.
99.02       Information released by the Company on August 3, 2006, and furnished under this report.
99.03       Slide presentation furnished under this report.

 
Exhibit 99.01
7000 Cardinal Place Dublin,OH 43017 www.cardinalhealth.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 Cardinal Health, the leading provider of products and services supporting the health-care industry, today announced fourth-quarter and fiscal 2006 results, with full-year revenue rising 10 percent to $81 billion and operating earnings improving 8 percent to nearly $2 billion.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Aug. 3, 2006
For the quarter ended June 30, revenue rose 12 percent to $21.7 billion from $19.3 billion in the prior-year period, while operating earnings declined 2 percent to $534 million from $546 million. Earnings from continuing operations increased 12 percent to $339 million from $303 million, and diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations increased 14 percent to $0.80 from $0.70 in the prior-year period. The favorable earnings comparisons were due in part to a higher tax rate in the prior-year period.
"Overall, the business performed as we expected during the quarter," said R. Kerry Clark, president and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. "Revenue growth was led by Pharmaceutical Distribution, margins improved from the first half of the year, operational progress was made in Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services and we had another standout quarter in Clinical Technologies and Services. While our fourth-quarter results reflect the good work we have underway to become an integrated operating company, we're not yet satisfied with our performance and we will continue to drive operational improvements and growth initiatives to further improve in fiscal 2007."
Cardinal Health also announced that its board has authorized a $1.5 billion share repurchase program above the $500 million plan announced in July. The company plans to complete the combined $2 billion share repurchase during the next two years.
 
Cardinal Health's Annual Revenue Increases 10 Percent to $81 Billion, Operating Earnings
Improve 8 Percent to Nearly $2 Billion Page 2
Q4 FY06 Earnings Summary
Consolidated fourth-quarter and recent highlights include:
Revenue for the full year climbed 10 percent to $81.4 billion from $74.3 billion and operating earnings improved 8 percent to $1.97 billion from $1.82 billion in the prior year. Earnings from continuing operations increased 12 percent to $1.2 billion from $1.1 billion, and diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 14 percent to $2.90 from $2.54 in the prior year. Operating margins improved in all segments from the first half of the fiscal year.
Fiscal 2006 Results
 
Cardinal Health's Annual Revenue Increases 10 Percent to $81 Billion, Operating Earnings
Improve 8 Percent to Nearly $2 Billion
Page 3
Operating cash flow for the year of $2.2 billion enabled Cardinal Health to repurchase shares totaling $1.5 billion, increase its quarterly dividend by 50 percent to $0.09 per share and invest for future growth opportunities.
FY06 Earnings Summary
In the fourth quarter, operating margins continued to improve sequentially in three of four business segments, with an expected decline in pharmaceutical distribution due to a seasonally strong third quarter. This seasonality continued to moderate from the prior year as the company realizes the financial impact of the transition to fee-for-service agreements with branded pharmaceutical companies.
Fourth-Quarter Segment Results
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 15 percent from the prior-year period, 7 percentage points of which related to the recognition of equity compensation as an expense during the fiscal year. Planned upfront investments in integration as part of the company's One Cardinal Health program also contributed to SG&A growth during the quarter. The company expects a moderation of SG&A growth in fiscal 2007.
(See attached tables or the Investors page on for additional financial information on segment results.)
www.cardinalhealth.com
For the quarter, revenue for the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment grew 16 percent to $18.2 billion. Direct-store-door (DSD) sales grew 8 percent, primarily due to organic growth with existing customers. Bulk customer sales grew 28 percent from the prior-year period to $8.4 billion.
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
Operating earnings declined 11 percent from the prior-year period to $268 million. The earnings decline was primarily due to a Last In, First Out (LIFO) accounting credit of $32 million in the prior-year period compared to a LIFO credit of $6.5 million in the fourth quarter of this year. The segment also increased a reserve by $10 million related to excess inventory from a particular pharmaceutical manufacturer. In addition, operating margins were down versus the prior-year period due to less seasonality associated with Cardinal Health's current fee-for-service business model, increased bulk customer sales and competitive pricing in the retail business. However, DSD sell margins were stable during the past three quarters.
 
Cardinal Health's Annual Revenue Increases 10 Percent to $81 Billion, Operating Earnings
Improve 8 Percent to Nearly $2 Billion
Page 4
Cardinal Health continued to differentiate its offerings for independent retail pharmacies during the quarter by introducing new front-end and back-end pharmacy services and continuing to integrate recent acquisitions of The F. Dohmen Co. and Parmed Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
For the full year, revenue grew 11 percent to $67.1 billion and operating earnings were even with the prior year at $1 billion.
For the quarter, revenue for the Medical Products and Services segment was nearly $2.4 billion, down 6 percent from the fourth quarter of 2005, while operating earnings rose 7 percent to $170 million. The decline in revenue was due to a sales decline in Cardinal Health's specialty pharmaceutical distribution (SPD) business and the previously announced divestiture of a substantial portion of that business.
Medical Products and Services
Revenue in the core medical products and services business increased 5 percent during the quarter, with growth led by international sales and sales of infection-prevention and laboratory products. During the quarter, the company acquired Denver Biomedical, a developer and manufacturer of specialized medical products for chronic fluid management.
For the full year, revenue grew 2 percent to $10 billion and operating earnings increased 4 percent to $647 million. Operating-earnings growth was negatively affected by 1 percentage point during the year due to SPD.
For the quarter, revenue for the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment increased 5 percent from the prior-year period to $747 million and operating earnings increased 28 percent to $96 million. The segment had its strongest quarter of the fiscal year, with sequential improvements of 23 percent in operating earnings and nearly 200 basis points in operating margins.
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
These results were driven by improved execution in sterile manufacturing through continued operational-excellence initiatives and favorable pricing for services. The increase in segment earnings was also supported by double-digit earnings growth in oral technologies, packaging services and nuclear pharmacy services. Highlights of the quarter included strong demand for Cardinal Health's proprietary Zydis fast-dissolve dosage form, the award of a contract by Roche to manufacture and package Tamiflu, the acquisition of PET radiopharmaceutical production facilities from Regional Nuclear Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and progress made toward commercial development at its North Raleigh, N.C. manufacturing site. Following the close of the quarter, the company also received a good-manufacturing-practices (GMP) certification from European regulators for its new Brussels sterile-manufacturing facility. The GMP certification allows Cardinal Health to begin a validation and approval process for commercial European products to be manufactured at the site.
For the full year, revenue increased 4 percent to $2.8 billion, while operating earnings declined 3 percent to $305 million.
For the quarter, Clinical Technologies and Services continued its fiscal 2006 growth trend with revenue increasing 9 percent from the prior-year period to $649 million, led by 15-percent growth in Alaris and Pyxis products. Sales outside the U.S. grew 18 percent, also led by strong increases for Alaris and Pyxis products. Operating earnings increased 47 percent from the prior-year period to $111 million. Revenue and earnings from clinical services and consulting also improved during the quarter.
Clinical Technologies and Services
 
Cardinal Health's Annual Revenue Increases 10 Percent to $81 Billion, Operating Earnings
Improve 8 Percent to Nearly $2 Billion
Page 5
Committed contracts were again strong and above internal goals for Alaris and Pyxis products, increasing the backlog to support future revenue and earnings. The Pyxis backlog ended the quarter at $296 million, more than $50 million ahead of the third quarter. Alaris' integration with Cardinal Health finished the year ahead of schedule and is expected to reach the high end of its target of $80 million to $100 million of pretax earnings by the end of fiscal 2007.
For the full year, revenue increased 11 percent to $2.4 billion, while operating earnings rose 56 percent to $384 million.
Cardinal Health reiterated the outlook it provided on June 12. For fiscal 2007, EPS is expected to be $3.50 to $3.70, excluding special items and impairment, non-recurring and other items. Beginning in fiscal 2007, the EPS outlook includes the impact of equity compensation. (See attached tables or for a definition of EPS, excluding special items and impairment, non-recurring and other items and information regarding forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures.)
Outlook
www.cardinalhealth.com
The company will report its 2007 results in five segments: Supply Chain Services  Pharmaceutical; Supply Chain Services  Medical; Medical Product Manufacturing; Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services; and Clinical Technologies and Services.
"Our five segments now clearly align with two major businesses: Supply Chain Services, which is focused on our foundational logistics and distribution capabilities, and Pharmaceutical & Medical Products, which is focused on our higher-margin, fast-growing manufacturing businesses that already account for one-third of our profit," Clark said. "Both are organized based on their unique business profiles and are complementary to each other.
"Through 2007, we will focus on gaining scale and delivering superior customer service in Supply Chain Services. In Pharmaceutical & Medical Products, we will be investing in customer-driven innovation and operational excellence. Across both businesses, we will continue our journey to One Cardinal Health through the implementation of standard processes and shared services."
Cardinal Health will host a conference call and webcast at 11 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) to discuss its results. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investor page at www.cardinalhealth.com . The conference call may also be accessed by calling 706-634-5100, conference passcode 1658436. An audio replay will be available until 11 p.m. EDT on Aug 5 at 706-645-9291, passcode 1658436. A transcript and audio replay will also be available at .
Conference Call
http://www.cardinalhealth.com
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is an $81 billion, global company serving the health-care industry with a broad portfolio of products and services. Through its diverse offerings, Cardinal Health delivers health-care solutions that help customers reduce their costs, improve safety and productivity, and deliver better care to patients. The company manufactures, packages and distributes pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, offers a range of clinical services and develops automation products that improve the management and delivery of supplies and medication for hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies. Ranked No. 19 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 55,000 people on six continents. More information about the company may be found at .
About Cardinal Health
www.cardinalhealth.com
 
Cardinal Health's Annual Revenue Increases 10 Percent to $81 Billion, Operating Earnings
Improve 8 Percent to Nearly $2 Billion
Page 6
Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: competitive pressures; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; difficulties and uncertainties related to transitions in senior management and organizational changes; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by or settlement discussions with any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings; the impact of previously announced restatements; difficulties in opening new facilities or fully utilizing existing capacity; the costs, difficulties and uncertainties related the integration of acquired businesses; with respect to future dividends, the decision by the board of directors to declare such dividends, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's surplus, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects at the time any such action is considered; with respect to future share repurchases, the approval of the board of directors, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's then-current stock price, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects as well as alternatives available to Cardinal Health at the time any such action is considered; and general economic and market conditions. Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
The following table summarizes the impact of special items on net earnings and diluted earnings per Common Share in the quarters in which they were recorded:
 
The following table summarizes the impact of special items on net earnings and diluted earnings per Common Share in the periods in which they were recorded:
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
Medical Products and Services
Clinical Technologies and Services
 
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
Medical Products and Services
Clinical Technologies and Services
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
Medical Products and Services
Clinical Technologies and Services
     
 
The sum of the quarters may not equal year-to-date due to rounding.
 
 
The sum of the quarters may not equal year-to-date due to rounding.
See the GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the balances excluding special items and equity compensation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents non-GAAP financial measures on a forward-looking basis. These measures may include: fiscal 2007 earnings per share guidance, excluding special items and impairment, non-recurring and other items; long-term earnings per share growth rate, excluding special items and impairment, non-recurring and other items; and return on equity, excluding special items.
The Company is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because the Company cannot reliably forecast special items and impairment, non-recurring and other items, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact the Company's future net earnings and cash flows.
 
GAAP
debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Debt to Total Capital:
current period long-term obligations plus current period short-term borrowings
Debt:
gross margin divided by selling, general and administrative expenses
Margin per Expense Dollar:
net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations
Operating Cash Flow:
current period operating earnings divided by total segment operating earnings
Operating Earnings Mix:
current period revenue divided by total segment revenue
Revenue Mix:
NON-GAAP
earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items net of tax divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Diluted Earnings per Share, Excluding Special Items:
current period earnings from continuing operations adjusted to exclude special items net of tax
Earnings from Continuing Operations, Excluding Special Items:
(current period earnings from continuing operations excluding special items minus prior period earnings from continuing operations excluding special items) divided by prior period earnings from continuing operations excluding special items
Earnings from Continuing Operations Growth Rate, Excluding Special Items:
current period earnings from continuing operations excluding special items divided by current period revenue
Earnings from Continuing Operations Ratio to Revenue, Excluding Special Items:
[(earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for special items and equity compensation) minus (earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items, net of tax and equity compensation, net of tax)] divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for special items and equity compensation)
Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Net Debt to Capital:
(long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings) minus (cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale)
Net Debt:
current period operating earnings adjusted to exclude current period special items
Operating Earnings, Excluding Special Items:
(current period operating earnings excluding special items minus prior period operating earnings excluding special items) divided by prior period operating earnings excluding special items
Operating Earnings Growth Rate, Excluding Special Items:
current period operating earnings excluding special items divided by current period revenue
Operating Earnings Ratio to Revenue (Operating Margin), Excluding Special Items:
current period operating earnings adjusted to exclude current period special items and equity compensation
Operating Margin, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
(annualized current period earnings from continuing operations plus special items minus special items tax benefit plus equity compensation minus equity compensation tax benefit) divided by average shareholders' equity adjusted for special items net of tax and equity compensation net of tax
Return on Equity, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
[(annualized current period operating earnings excluding special items and equity compensation) multiplied by (one minus current period effective tax rate from continuing operations excluding special items and equity compensation)] divided by (average total shareholders' equity plus debt plus unrecorded goodwill)
Return on Invested Capital, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
total shareholders' equity minus goodwill and other intangibles, net
Tangible Net Worth:
FORWARD-LOOKING NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
(earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items net of tax, impairment charges and other net of tax and non-recurring and other items net of tax) divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Fiscal 2007 Earnings per Share Guidance, Excluding Special Items and Impairment, Non-Recurring and Other Items:
(earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items net of tax, impairment charges and other net of tax and non-recurring and other items net of tax) divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Long-Term Earnings per Share Growth Rate, Excluding Special Items and Impairment, Non-Recurring and Other Items:
annualized current period earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items net of tax divided by average shareholders' equity adjusted for special items net of tax
Return on Equity, Excluding Special Items:

 
Exhibit 99.02
     In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company's") earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable historical GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the amounts that have been adjusted as a supplemental metric to assist readers. Definitions and calculations of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the earnings release.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measures "operating earnings, excluding special items," "operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items," and "operating margin (or operating earnings ratio to revenue), excluding special items." The Company's special items primarily consist of costs relating to the integration of previously-acquired companies, which may include employee-related costs, asset impairments and exit costs, debt issuance cost write-offs and integration costs, or costs of restructuring operations, which may include employee-related costs, facility exit costs and asset impairments. The Company also records as special items settlements of significant lawsuits and, from time to time, other material charges that are infrequent, non-recurring or unusual in nature, such as the costs related to settlement reserves and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the previously-disclosed Securities and Exchange Commission investigation and Audit Committee internal review and related matters. For further discussion of items classified as special items, see the notes to the financial statements contained in the Company's Annual and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items.
     Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
     The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP measures is that the measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP measures in combination with operating earnings, operating earnings growth rate and operating margin (the most comparable GAAP measures) because the measures excluding special items do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use
Operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation.
 
financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. In addition, current period equity compensation expense primarily reflects the impact of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123(R), which revises SFAS No. 123, . For the sake of comparability, management may evaluate Company performance excluding equity compensation.
Share-Based Payment,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
     The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Also, this measure does not take into account the accounting cost of employee stock options. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with operating margin (the most comparable GAAP measure) because operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than GAAP operating margin. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance. In addition, management believes excluding the impact of equity compensation expense is useful because it allows investors to draw comparisons between operating results reported prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the current period, which may obscure underlying trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measures "earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items," "earnings from continuing operations growth rate, excluding special items," and "earnings from continuing operations ratio to revenue, excluding special items." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
Earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items; earnings from continuing operations growth rate, excluding special items; and earnings from continuing operations ratio to revenue, excluding special items.
     The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP measures in combination with earnings from continuing operations, earnings from continuing operations growth rate and earnings from continuing operations ratio to revenue (the most comparable GAAP measures) because the measures excluding special items do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "diluted earnings per share, excluding special items." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses diluted earnings per share, excluding special items, to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related
Diluted earnings per share, excluding special items.
 
activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
     The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with diluted earnings per share (the most comparable GAAP measures) because diluted earnings per share, excluding special items, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than GAAP diluted earnings per share. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
     The Company presents on a historical basis the non-GAAP financial measure "return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation." The Company has forecast return on equity, excluding special items. See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. In addition, current period equity compensation expense primarily reflects the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123(R). For the sake of comparability, management may evaluate Company performance excluding equity compensation.
Return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation.
     The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Also, return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation, does not take into account the accounting cost of employee stock options. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP measures in combination with return on equity (the most comparable GAAP measures) because the measures excluding special items and equity compensation do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than GAAP return on equity. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance. In addition, management believes excluding the impact of equity compensation expense is useful because it allows investors to draw comparisons between operating results reported prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the current period, which may obscure underlying trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. In addition, current period
Return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation.
 
equity compensation expense primarily reflects the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123(R). For the sake of comparability, management may evaluate Company performance excluding equity compensation.
     The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Also, this measure does not take into account the accounting cost of employee stock options. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with return on invested capital (the most comparable GAAP measures) because return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than GAAP return on invested capital. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance. In addition, management believes excluding the impact of equity compensation expense is useful because it allows investors to draw comparisons between operating results reported prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the current period, which may obscure underlying trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation, to evaluate the Company's performance because special items and equity compensation are taxed differently than other items.
Effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation.
     The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Also, this measure does not take into account the accounting cost of employee stock options. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with effective tax rate from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measures) because effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be lower or lower than GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations. Management believes that investors may find this non-GAAP measure useful to evaluate the Company's future performance because special items and equity compensation may have a different tax impact than other items.
     The Company also presents the non-GAAP financial measure "net debt to capital," which is net debt divided by capital (net debt plus total shareholders' equity). "Net debt," also a non-GAAP financial measure, is debt (the most comparable GAAP measure, calculated as long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings) minus cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale. Management believes that net debt to capital is an important measure to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet. With respect to net debt, cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale are subtracted from the GAAP measure because they could be used to reduce the Company's debt obligations.
Net debt to capital.
     The limitation associated with using net debt is that it subtracts cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale and therefore may imply that there is less Company debt than the most comparable GAAP measure indicates. This limitation is best addressed by using net debt in combination with debt because net debt may be significantly lower than the GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "tangible net worth," which is total shareholders' equity (the most comparable GAAP measure) minus goodwill and other intangibles, net. Management believes that tangible net worth is an important measure of liquidity. Goodwill and other intangibles are subtracted from the GAAP measure because they represent
Tangible net worth.
 
assets of the Company that can be harder to value. The limitation associated with using tangible net worth is that it excludes assets that still have considerable worth to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using tangible net worth in combination with total shareholders' equity. Management believes that investors may find tangible net worth useful to monitor liquidity.
     The Company has forecast fiscal year 2007 earnings per share and long-term earnings per share growth rate, excluding special items, impairment charges and non-recurring and other items. See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification.
Earnings per share and earnings per share growth rate outlook.
     The Company classifies certain asset impairments related to restructurings in special items, which are included in operating earnings within the consolidated statements of earnings. The Company presents asset impairments and gains and losses not eligible to be classified as special items within "impairment charges and other" within the consolidated statements of earnings. Within this category are asset impairments that have been incurred due to the Company's restructuring programs and strategic planning efforts. For further discussion of items classified as impairment charges and other, see the notes to the financial statements contained in the Company's Annual and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
     In addition, the Company has identified items as non-recurring and other items. The Alaris inventory adjustment item identified as a non-recurring item relates to purchase accounting adjustments recorded during fiscal 2005 related to the Alaris business acquired in 2004. These adjustments included an inventory valuation adjustment to "fair value" and the adjusted, higher cost inventory being sold. The latex litigation item identified as a non-recurring item relates to charges taken during fiscal 2005 within the Medical Products and Services segment related to estimated remaining liabilities for outstanding latex litigation. The inventory adjustmentSKU rationalization item identified as a non-recurring item relates to inventory adjustments of certain health and beauty care products completed during fiscal 2005.
     The vendor credit adjustment item identified as "other" relates to a charge taken during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 after the Company discovered that it had inadvertently and erroneously failed to process credits owed to a vendor in prior years. After a thorough review, the Company determined that it had failed to process similar credits for a limited number of additional vendors. These processing failures, specific to a limited area of vendor credits, resulted from system programming, interface and data entry errors relating to these vendor credits which occurred over a period of years. The Company has recorded subsequent adjustments to the original vendor charge that are also identified as "other" items.
     The HIA repatriation tax provision item identified as "other" relates to a provision of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "AJCA") that created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate undistributed income earned abroad by providing an 85% dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company determined that it would repatriate accumulated foreign earnings in fiscal 2006 pursuant to the repatriation provisions of the AJCA, and accordingly recorded a related tax liability as of June 30, 2005.
     It is difficult to include the impact of special items, impairment charges and non-recurring and other items in the Company's earnings per share forecast because the Company cannot predict the amount and timing of such items and the associated charges or gains that will be taken. These items are also excluded because they may mask the underlying results and trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results.

 
Exhibit 99.03
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


