FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20061113162122.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(c)
On November 8, 2006, the Board of Directors of Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") appointed Mark W. Parrish as Chief Executive Officer of the Company's Healthcare Supply Chain Services sector. Prior to that, Mr. Parrish, 51, was Group President  Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Services since August 2006 and President and Chief Operating Officer  Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Services from September 2005 to August 2006. He served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services from August 2004 to September 2005, Executive Vice President and Group President  Pharmaceutical Distribution from January 2003 to August 2004, and President, Medicine Shoppe International, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company, from July 2001 to January 2003.
In connection with the appointment of Mr. Parrish, the Company entered into a letter agreement with him (the "Parrish Agreement"). The Parrish Agreement provides generally that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under the Parrish Agreement, if (a) the Company terminates Mr. Parrish's employment without cause, or (b) Mr. Parrish terminates his own employment if there is a material diminution of his duties, he will receive:
 
 
 
 
If any payments made to Mr. Parrish would be subject to the excise tax imposed on "parachute payments" by the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), the amount payable to Mr. Parrish will be reduced to the extent necessary so that no portion of the payments will be subject to the excise tax imposed by the Code. This reduction will only occur, however, if, as a result, the net after-tax benefit to Mr. Parrish exceeds the net after-tax benefit if no reduction is made.
Mr. Parrish also entered into a Confidentiality and Business Protection Agreement with the Company that provides that during his employment and for 18 months afterward, he will not:
 
 
 
 
The Parrish Agreement and the Confidentiality and Business Protection Agreement are filed as Exhibit 10.01 to this report and the foregoing descriptions are qualified by reference to the full text of the agreements set forth in the exhibit.
(d)
On November 8, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Philip L. Francis to the Board of Directors to serve until the Company's 2007 annual meeting of shareholders and his successor is elected and qualified. Mr. Francis is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of PetSmart, Inc. He is also a director of SUPERVALU INC. He was elected as a member of the Board's Audit Committee.
Mr. Francis will participate in the standard non-management director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2006 proxy statement, including an initial equity award. Accordingly, on November 8, 2006, Mr. Francis was granted an option to purchase 3,308 common shares at an exercise price of $63.48, the closing share price on that date. He also was granted 473 RSUs that will be settled in common shares. Both awards will vest on November 8, 2007. The option term is seven years.
The Company entered into its standard directors' indemnification agreement with Mr. Francis, in the form previously filed by the Company as Exhibit 10.38 to Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. The agreement generally provides, among other things, that the director will be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by law and advanced expenses in connection with the defense of any proceedings.
 
On November 7, 2006, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors approved the Amended and Restated Cardinal Health, Inc. Management Incentive Plan (the "MIP"). The MIP governs the Company's annual management incentive plan for its executive officers. The amendments to the MIP add or modify administrative provisions relating to participating for a portion of a performance period, determining and paying final awards in compliance with Section 409A of the Code and the effect of termination of employment on eligibility for an award.
Another provision added to the MIP is that the MIP administrator may, in its discretion, require a participant to repay all or any portion of his or her bonus to the Company if the participant violates a non-competition and confidentiality covenant applicable to the participant. The administrator may, in its discretion, also require a participant to repay all or any portion of his or her bonus to the Company if each of the following conditions is met: (a) the amount of the bonus was calculated based upon achieving certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a financial statement restatement; (b) the participant engaged in misconduct that caused or contributed to the need for the restatement; and (c) the amount of the bonus would have been lower than the amount actually awarded to the participant had the financial results been properly reported.
The MIP is filed as Exhibit 10.02 to this report and the foregoing description is qualified by reference to the full text of the plan set forth in the exhibit.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 8, 2006, Director J. Michael Losh was elected to serve on the Board's Audit Committee and Director Richard C. Notebaert was elected to serve on the Board's Nominating and Governance and Executive Committees. Mr. Notebaert also was elected Chair of the Compensation Committee succeeding John B. McCoy, who will continue to serve as a member of the Compensation Committee.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
On November 7, 2006, the Compensation Committee approved changes to the Company's forms of directors' stock option and RSU agreements under the Amended and Restated Outside Directors Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, including implementing a one-year holding period requirement. The agreements, which will be used for the initial equity grant to Mr. Francis described above and the annual equity grant to each of the other non-management directors made on November 8, 2006, are filed as Exhibits 10.03 and 10.04 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.01
 
 
November 8, 2006
Mark Parrish
Cardinal Health
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, OH 43017
Dear Mark:
It is with great pleasure that I confirm in writing your promotion and the terms of your employment in your new position with Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company" or "Cardinal Health"). This letter will replace your existing employment agreement dated September 2, 2005, which you agree will no longer apply:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mark Parrish
November 8, 2006
Page 2
 
 
 
 
Mark Parrish
November 8, 2006
Page 3
 
 
Mark, congratulations on your new position. We all look forward to working with you in your new role.
 
Enclosures
cc: Human Resources
I accept the above terms and conditions of my continued employment and acknowledge that my September 2, 2005 employment agreement is no longer in effect:
 
This Confidentiality and Business Protection Agreement ("Agreement") is hereby entered into by and between Mark Parrish ("Executive") and Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio Corporation (the "Company") effective as of November 8, 2006.
It is hereby agreed as follows:
1. . The parties acknowledge that the provisions and covenants contained in this Agreement are ancillary and material to, and in consideration of, the employment letter agreement between the parties effective as of November 8, 2006, and that the limitations contained herein are reasonable in geographic and temporal scope and do not impose a greater restriction or restraint than is necessary to protect the goodwill and other legitimate business interests of the Company. The parties also acknowledge and agree that the provisions of this Agreement do not adversely affect the Executive's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate the covenants contained herein. The parties further acknowledge and agree that the provisions of Section 9(a) below are accurate and necessary because (i) this Agreement is entered into in the State of Ohio, (ii) Ohio has a substantial relationship to the parties and to this transaction, (iii) Ohio is the headquarters state of the Company, which has operations nationwide and has a compelling interest in having its employees treated uniformly, (iv) the use of Ohio law provides certainty to the parties in any covenant litigation in the United States, and (v) enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement would not violate any fundamental public policy of Ohio or any other jurisdiction.
Consideration and Acknowledgements
2. . The Executive shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit of the Company and all of its subsidiaries, partnerships, joint ventures, limited liability companies, and other affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"), all secret or confidential information, knowledge or data relating to the Cardinal Group and its businesses (including, without limitation, any proprietary and not publicly available information concerning any processes, methods, trade secrets, research, secret data, costs, names of users or purchasers of their respective products or services, business methods, operating procedures or programs or methods of promotion and sale) that the Executive has obtained or obtains during the Executive's employment by the Cardinal Group and that is not public knowledge (other than as a result of the Executive's violation of this Agreement) ("Confidential Information"). For the purposes of this Agreement, information shall not be deemed to be publicly available merely because it is embraced by general disclosures or because individual features or combinations thereof are publicly available. The Executive shall not communicate, divulge or disseminate Confidential Information at any time during or after the Executive's employment with the Cardinal Group, except with prior written consent of the applicable Cardinal Group company, or as otherwise required by law or legal process. All records, files, memoranda, reports, customer lists, drawings, plans, documents and the like that the Executive uses, prepares or comes into contact with during the course of the Executive's employment shall remain the sole property of the Company and/or the Cardinal Group, as applicable, and shall be turned over to the applicable Cardinal Group company upon termination of the Executive's employment.
Confidential Information
3. . Executive shall not, at any time during the Restricted Period (as defined in this Agreement), without the prior written consent of the Company, engage in the following conduct (a "Solicitation"): (i) directly or indirectly contact, solicit, recruit or employ (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent,
Non-Recruitment of Cardinal Group Employees, etc
consultant or independent contractor) any person who was or is at any time during the previous twelve months an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group; or (ii) take any action to encourage or induce any employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group to cease their relationship with the Cardinal Group for any reason. A "Solicitation" does not include any recruitment of employees within or for the Cardinal Group. The "Restricted Period" means the period of Executive's employment with the Cardinal Group (without regard to any period during which Executive serves as a consulting employee) and the additional period ending eighteen (18) months after the Executive's date of termination of employment or date of retirement, as applicable.
4. . During the Restricted Period, the Executive shall not (either directly or indirectly or as an officer, agent, employee, partner or director of any other company, partnership or entity) solicit, service, or accept on behalf of any competitor of the Cardinal Group the business of (i) any customer of the Cardinal Group at the time of the Executive's employment or date of termination of employment, or (ii) any potential customer of the Cardinal Group which the Executive knew to be an identified, prospective purchaser of services or products of the Cardinal Group.
No Competition  Solicitation of Business
5. . During the Restricted Period, the Executive shall not invest in (other than in a publicly traded company with a maximum investment of no more than 1% of outstanding shares), counsel, advise, or be otherwise engaged or employed by, any entity or enterprise that competes with the Cardinal Group, by developing, manufacturing or selling any product or service of a type, respectively, developed, manufactured or sold by the Cardinal Group (each such person described, and not excepted, as a customer, potential customer or a competitor under Section 4 or this Section 5 of this Agreement is a "Competitor").
No Competition  Employment by Competitor
6. .
No Disparagement
(a) The Executive and the Company shall at all times refrain from taking actions or making statements, written or oral, that (A) denigrate, disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of Executive or the Cardinal Group, as the case may be, or any of its trustees, officers, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, or (B) are intended to, or may be reasonably expected to, adversely affect the morale of the employees of the Cardinal Group. The Executive further agrees not to make any negative statements to third parties relating to the Executive's employment or any aspect of the businesses of Cardinal Group and not to make any statements to third parties about the circumstances of the termination of the Executive's employment, or about the Cardinal Group or its trustees, directors, officers, security holders, partners, agents or former or current employees and directors, except as may be required by a court or governmental body.
(b) The Executive further agrees that, following termination of employment for any reason, the Executive shall assist and cooperate with the Company with regard to any matter or project in which the Executive was involved during the Executive's employment with the Company, including but not limited to any litigation that may be pending or may arise after such termination of employment. Further, the Executive agrees to notify the Company at the earliest opportunity of any contact that is made by any third parties concerning any such matter or project. The Company shall not unreasonably request such cooperation of Executive and shall cooperate with the Executive in scheduling any assistance by the Executive, taking into account the Executive's business and personal affairs, and shall
compensate the Executive for any lost wages or expenses associated with such cooperation and assistance.
7. . All plans, discoveries and improvements, whether patentable or unpatentable, made or devised by the Executive, whether alone or jointly with others, from the date of the Executive's initial employment by the Company and continuing until the end of any period during which the Executive is employed by the Cardinal Group, relating or pertaining in any way to the Executive's employment with or the business of the Cardinal Group, shall be promptly disclosed in writing to the Secretary of the Board and are hereby transferred to and shall redound to the benefit of the Company, and shall become and remain its sole and exclusive property. The Executive agrees to execute any assignment to the Company or its nominee, of the Executive's entire right, title and interest in and to any such discoveries and improvements and to execute any other instruments and documents requisite or desirable in applying for and obtaining patents, trademarks or copyrights, at the expense of the Company, with respect thereto in the United States and in all foreign countries, that may be required by the Company. The Executive further agrees at all times to cooperate to the extent and in the manner required by the Company, in the prosecution or defense of any patent or copyright claims or any litigation, or other proceeding involving any trade secrets, processes, discoveries or improvements covered by this Agreement, but all necessary expenses thereof shall be paid by the Company.
Inventions
8. . The Executive acknowledges and agrees that: (A) the purpose of the foregoing covenants, including without limitation the noncompetition covenants of Sections 4 and 5, is to protect the goodwill, trade secrets and other Confidential Information of the Company; (B) because of the nature of the business in which the Cardinal Group is engaged and because of the nature of the Confidential Information to which the Executive has access, the Company would suffer irreparable harm and it would be impractical and excessively difficult to determine the actual damages of the Cardinal Group in the event the Executive breached any of the covenants of this Agreement; and (C) remedies at law (such as monetary damages) for any breach of the Executive's obligations under this Agreement would be inadequate. The Executive therefore agrees and consents that if the Executive commits any breach of a covenant under this Agreement or threatens to commit any such breach, the Company shall have the right (in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other right or remedy that may be available to it) to temporary and permanent injunctive relief from a court of competent jurisdiction, without posting any bond or other security and without the necessity of proof of actual damage.
Acknowledgement and Enforcement
9. .
Miscellaneous
(a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. If, under any such law, any portion of this Agreement is at any time deemed to be in conflict with any applicable statute, rule, regulation or ordinance, such portion shall be deemed to be modified or altered to conform thereto. The parties hereto irrevocably agree to submit to the jurisdiction and venue of the courts of the State of Ohio in any action or proceeding brought with respect to or in connection with this Agreement. The captions of this Agreement are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may not be amended or modified otherwise than by a written agreement executed by the parties hereto or their respective successors and legal representatives.
(b) All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given by hand delivery to the other party or by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows:
 
or to such other address as either party shall have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith. Notice and communications shall be effective when actually received by the addressee.
(c) The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement. If any provision of this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable in part, the remaining portion of such provision, together with all other provisions of this Agreement, shall remain valid and enforceable and continue in full force and effect to the fullest extent consistent with the law.
(d) The Executive's or the Company's failure to insist upon strict compliance with any provision of this Agreement or the failure to assert any right the Executive or the Company may have hereunder, shall not be deemed to be a waiver of such provision or right or any other provision or right of this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has hereunto set the Executive's hand and the Company has caused these presents to be executed in its name and on its behalf, all as of the day and year first above written.
Execution Date: November 7, 2006
 
 

Exhibit 10.02
Article 1. Establishment and Purpose
1.1. . The Cardinal Health, Inc. Management Incentive Plan (the "Plan") was established and approved by the Board of Directors of the Company on August 14, 1996, and the Company's shareholders approved the material terms of the Plan and the performance goals thereunder at the meeting of shareholders held on October 29, 1996. Subsequently, the Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Plan on September 3, 1998, and the Company's shareholders approved the amendment at the annual meeting of shareholders held on November 23, 1998. The Company's shareholders re-approved the material terms of the performance goals under the Plan at the annual meeting of shareholders held on November 1, 2000. The Committee approved an amendment to the Plan on August 4, 2004, and the Company's shareholders approved the amendment and the material terms of the performance goals under the Plan as amended at the annual meeting of shareholders held on December 8, 2004. Section 8 of the Plan provides that the Committee may amend the Plan at any time and that shareholder approval of such amendment will be required only if required by applicable law. In accordance with this authority, the Plan is hereby amended and restated effective as of July 1, 2006, to provide for additional administrative provisions and to comply with Section 409A of the Code. The Plan is intended to provide for performance based compensation which is not subject to the deduction limitation rules under Section 162(m) of the Code as in effect from time to time, and shall remain in effect until terminated by the Board or the Committee.
Establishment of Plan
1.2. . The primary purposes of the Plan are to:
Purpose
(a) Advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by providing Employees in leadership positions with an annual bonus incentive to achieve the strategic objectives of the Company and its subsidiaries;
(b) Focus management on key measures that drive superior financial and management performance and that result in enhanced value of the Company;
(c) Provide compensation opportunities that are externally competitive and internally consistent with the Company's strategic objectives and total reward strategies; and
(d) Provide bonus opportunities that reward executives who are in positions to make significant contributions to the overall success of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the defined meaning is intended, the term is capitalized:
2.1. "Administrator" means the Committee or such other authorized officers of the Company to whom the power to administer the Plan has been properly delegated.
2.2. "Applicable Law" means the requirements of Code Section 162(m) applicable to performance based compensation.
 
2.3. "Award" means the cash bonus a Participant may earn under the Plan.
2.4. "Board" or "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
2.5. "Code" means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and rulings of general applicability issued thereunder as in effect from time to time.
2.6. "Committee" means the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee of Directors appointed by the Board and comprised of two (2) or more individuals who are "outside directors" (as that term is defined in Section 162(m) of the Code).
2.7. "Company" means Cardinal Health, Inc., or any successor thereto.
2.8. "Covered Employee" means any Employee who is, or who is determined by the Committee to be likely to become, a "covered employee" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m).
2.9. "Disability" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the long term disability plan maintained by the Participant's employer at the time that the determination regarding Disability is made hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a payment under this Plan is subject to Code Section 409A, "Disability" has the meaning ascribed to such term under that Code section.
2.10. "Earned Salary" means a Participant's base pay or salary earned and paid for the Performance Period or portion thereof in which the Employee was an eligible Participant in the Plan.
2.11. "Effective Date" of the Plan was July 1, 1996. The Effective Date of this Amended and Restated Plan is July 1, 2006.
2.12. "Employee" means a regular, active employee of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company. Directors who are not employed by the Company shall not be considered Employees under the Plan, nor shall independent contractors, leased employees, consultants or anyone else designated as not eligible to participate in the Plan by the Administrator.
2.13. "Final Bonus" means the actual bonus earned during a Performance Period by a Participant, as determined by the Administrator.
2.14. "Participant" means an Employee who meets the eligibility requirements of Article 3 with respect to one or more Performance Periods.
2.15. "Performance Criteria" shall have the meaning set forth in Article 4.
2.16. "Performance Period" means the twelve month period beginning on each July 1
st
and ending on the next succeeding June 30
th
during the term of the Plan, or such other time period established by the Administrator from time to time with respect to which the attainment of Performance Criteria will be determined.
2.17. "Plan" means this Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Management Incentive Plan, as hereafter amended from time to time.
2.18. "Target Award" means the amount of any Award as established by the Administrator that would be payable to a Participant for a Performance Period if the Performance Criteria for the
 
Performance Period were fully (100%) achieved and no negative discretion was exercised by the Administrator in regard to that Award.
Article 3. Eligibility and Participation
3.1. . The Administrator shall designate, or determine the methodology and criteria for the designation of, the Employees who are eligible to receive an Award under the Plan. In general, an Employee may be designated if such Employee is an executive officer of the Company. Only the Committee may determine the eligibility of Employees who are Covered Employees.
Eligibility and Participation
3.2. . An Employee who becomes eligible after the beginning of a Performance Period may participate in the Plan for that Performance Period on a ratable basis. Such situations may include, but are not limited to (a) new hires; or (b) when an Employee is promoted from a position which did not previously meet the eligibility criteria. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, retains the right to prohibit or allow participation in the initial Performance Period of eligibility for any of the aforementioned Employees. If an Employee participates for only a portion of a Performance Period for any reason, the Performance Criteria previously established under the Plan for that Performance Period shall apply to any Employees who become eligible after the beginning of the Performance Period, but his or her Award and Target Award will be prorated. Such proration shall be based on the number of days the Employee performed services during the Performance Period while a Participant in the Plan over the total days in the Performance Period, or some similar method adopted by the Committee that results in a ratable reduction of the Award based on the partial Performance Period applicable to the Employee. In addition, in the event a Participant changes job levels during a Performance Period, the Participant's Award may be adjusted to reflect the amount of time at each job level during the Performance Period. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.2 or in the Plan to the contrary, the participation in the Plan for a Covered Employee who becomes eligible after the beginning of the Performance Period shall comply with the provisions of Code Section 162(m), as set forth in Article 4.
Partial Performance Period Participation
3.3. . No Participant or other Employee shall at any time have a right to be selected for participation in the Plan for any Performance Period, whether or not he or she previously participated in the Plan.
No Right to Participate
Article 4. Award Determination
4.1. . As to each Performance Period, the Administrator will establish in writing Performance Criteria based on one or more of the following performance measures of the Company (and/or one or more operating groups of the Company, if applicable) over the Performance Period: (i) cash flow; (ii) earnings (including gross margin, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before taxes, and net earnings); (iii) earnings per share; (iv) growth in earnings or earnings per share; (v) stock price; (vi) return on equity or average shareholders' equity; (vii) total shareholder return; (viii) return on capital; (ix) return on assets or net assets; (x) return on investment; (xi) revenue; (xii) income or net income; (xiii) operating income or net operating income; (xiv) operating profit or net operating profit (whether before or after taxes); (xv) operating margin; (xvi) return on operating revenue; (xvii) market share; (xviii) contract awards or backlog; (xix) overhead or other expense reduction; (xx) growth in shareholder value relative to the moving average of the S&P 500 Index or a peer group index; (xxi) credit rating; (xxii) strategic plan development and implementation; (xxiii) improvement in workforce diversity: (xxiv) customer satisfaction; (xxv) employee satisfaction; (xxvi) management succession plan development and implementation; and (xxvii) employee retention. Except as otherwise provided herein, the extent to which the Performance Criteria are satisfied will determine the amount, if any, of the Award
Performance Criteria
 
that will be earned by each Participant. The Performance Criteria may vary for different Performance Periods and need not be the same for each Participant eligible for an Award for a Performance Period.
4.2. . Once established, the Performance Criteria shall not be changed during the Performance Period. Subject to the requirements of Code Section 162(m) with respect to Covered Employees, at the time the Award is made and Performance Criteria are established, the Administrator is authorized to determine the manner in which the Performance Criteria will be calculated or measured to take into account certain factors over which Participants have no or limited control, including, but not limited to, market related changes in inventory value, changes in industry margins, changes in accounting principles, and extraordinary charges to income.
Adjustment of Performance Criteria
4.3. . For each Performance Period established by the Administrator, the Administrator shall establish a Target Award for each Covered Employee and for all other Participants. Awards shall be earned based upon the financial performance of the Company or one or more operating groups of the Company and the attainment of established Performance Criteria during a Performance Period; provided, however, the maximum Award that may be paid to any single Participant for any Performance Period is $7,500,000, such maximum Award amount to be pro-rated if the Performance Period is less than a full fiscal year. Performance Criteria and Target Awards shall be established prior to the beginning of each Performance Period or as soon as practicable thereafter. If a Participant commences participation after the beginning of a Performance Period, Performance Criteria in effect for the Participant's position shall apply for the remaining balance of the Performance Period, unless otherwise determined by the Administrator within 90 days of the date the Employee became a Participant. In all cases where the Participant is a Covered Employee, the Performance Criteria and Target Award shall be established in no event later than 90 days following the first day of the Performance Period or after 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed, if earlier, and the outcome relative to the attainment of the Performance Criteria shall not be substantially certain at the time the Performance Criteria and Target Award are established. This Section 4.3 is intended to ensure compliance with the exception from Code Section 162(m) for qualified "performance-based compensation," and shall be construed, applied and administered accordingly with respect to any Participant who is a Covered Employee.
Target Awards
4.4. . At the end of each Performance Period, the Administrator shall certify in writing the extent to which the Performance Criteria were met during the Performance Period for any Awards for Covered Employees. If the Performance Criteria for the Performance Period are met, Covered Employees shall be entitled to the payment of the Awards, subject to the Committee's exercise of negative discretion to reduce any Final Bonus payable to a Covered Employee based on business objectives established for that Covered Employee or other factors as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. With respect to Participants who are not Covered Employees, the Administrator will determine the Final Bonus based on the Performance Criteria and other business objectives. The Administrator may adjust (up or down) any Final Bonus for Participants who are not Covered Employees on the basis of such further considerations as the Administrator shall determine in its sole discretion.
Final Bonus Determinations
Article 5. Payment of Final Bonuses
5.1. . Each Participant's Final Bonus shall be paid in cash, in one lump sum, subject to applicable tax and other authorized withholdings, on or before the 15
Form and Timing of Payment
th
day of the third month after the end of each Performance Period. If payment is delayed due to an unforeseeable event or other administrative delays, payment shall in no event be made later than the 15
th
day of the third month after the end of the taxable year of the Participant in which the Final Bonus was earned. Other withholdings may include, but not be limited to, amounts previously elected to be deferred to a tax-qualified or non-qualified retirement or deferred compensation plan, employee stock purchase plan or
 
similar arrangement. The Administrator may permit or provide for deferred payment of any Final Bonus to a specified date or to a date not less than six (6) months after termination of employment, in accordance with such conditions and procedures as the Administrator may specify in compliance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
5.2. . No Participant or any other party claiming an interest in amounts earned under the Plan shall have any interest whatsoever in any specific asset of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. The Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded plan for incentive compensation. To the extent that any party acquires a right to receive a cash payment under the Plan, such right shall be equivalent to that of an unsecured general creditor of the Company.
Unsecured Interest
Article 6. Termination of Employment
6.1. . In the event a Participant's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability during the fourth quarter of the applicable Performance Period, the Final Bonus determined in accordance with Section 4.4 herein shall be reduced to reflect participation prior to termination only. The Final Bonus, if any, shall be prorated based upon the length of time that the Participant was employed by the Company during the Performance Period and the progress toward achievement of the established Performance Criteria during the portion of the Performance Period during which the Participant was employed by the Company. In the case of a Participant's Disability, the employment termination shall be deemed to have occurred as of the date that the Administrator determines was the date on which the definition of Disability was satisfied. The Final Bonus thus determined shall be paid as soon as practicable and reasonable following the end of the Performance Period in which employment termination occurs, and shall be made at the same time payments are made to Participants who did not terminate employment during the applicable Performance Period. The Administrator may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable in the event of the Participant's death are to be paid. If no beneficiary is designated, the right of the Participant to receive any payment under this Plan will pass to the Participant's estate.
Termination of Employment Due to Death or Disability
6.2. . If the employment of a Participant is terminated by the Company other than for "Cause" during the fourth quarter of the applicable Performance Period, the Final Bonus determined in accordance with Section 4.4 herein shall be reduced to reflect participation prior to termination only. The Final Bonus, if any, shall be prorated based upon the length of time that the Participant was employed by the Company during the Performance Period and the progress toward achievement of the established Performance Criteria during the portion of the Performance Period during which the Participant was employed by the Company. Whether an involuntary termination is for "Cause" shall be determined in the absolute discretion of the Administrator, whose decision shall be final and binding on all parties.
Involuntary Termination of Employment
6.3. . In the event a Participant's employment is terminated before the fourth quarter of the Performance Period due to death, Disability or involuntary termination, with or without Cause, all of the Participant's rights to any Final Bonus for that Performance Period shall be forfeited unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion due to the business circumstances of the termination, such as a termination in connection with the divestiture of a business segment or subsidiary. If a Participant terminates employment for any other reason prior to the date the Final Bonus, if any, is paid, all of the Participant's rights to any Final Bonus for that Performance Period shall be forfeited. Except as provided in Sections 6.1 and 6.2, only Participants who are, as of the date the Final Bonus, if any, is paid, either current, active Employees or current Employees who are on a leave of absence authorized by the Company shall be entitled to any Final Award earned for the Performance Period.
Termination of Employment for Other Reasons
 
6.4 . The Administrator may, in its discretion, require that all or any portion of a Final Bonus is subject to an obligation of repayment to the Company upon the violation of a non-competition and confidentiality covenant applicable to the Participant. The Administrator may, in its discretion, also require repayment to the Company of all or any portion of a Final Bonus if the amount of the Final Bonus was calculated based upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a financial statement restatement, the Participant engaged in misconduct that caused or contributed to the need for the financial statement restatement, and the amount of the Final Bonus would have been lower than the amount actually awarded to the Participant had the financial results been properly reported. This Section 6.4 shall not be the Company's exclusive remedy with respect to such matters. This Section 6.4 shall not apply after a "change of control" of the Company as defined in the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan or any successor plan thereto.
Other Forfeiture Events
Article 7. Rights of Participants
7.1. . No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award under this Plan and the grant of an Award shall not confer upon any Participant any right to be retained as an employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, nor shall it limit or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate the employment of any Participant at any time or to increase or decrease the compensation of any Participant. There is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants under this Plan or otherwise.
Employment
7.2. . No right or interest of any Participant in the Plan shall be assignable or transferable, other than by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, or subject to any lien, directly, by operation of law or otherwise, including, but not limited to, by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge, or bankruptcy, and any attempt to take any such action shall be null and void.
Nontransferability
7.3. . Subject to the provisions of Section 4.3, the Administrator may, in order to fulfill the Plan purposes and without amending the Plan, modify Awards granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States to the extent necessary to recognize differences in local law, tax policy or custom.
Foreign Participants
Article 8. Administration
8.1. .
Authority of the Administrator
(a) General. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee will have full authority to interpret the Plan and the terms of Awards made hereunder, to establish, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, to determine the terms and provisions for making or modifying Awards, to correct administrative errors, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. All decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions hereof shall be made in the Committee's sole discretion and shall be final and binding on all persons. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the Committee shall not have any discretion or authority to make changes to any Award that is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) to the extent that the existence of such discretion or authority would cause such Award not to so qualify.
(b) Delegation of Authority for the Day-to-Day Administration of the Plan.Except to the extent prohibited by Applicable Law, the Committee may delegate to one or more individuals the day-to-day administration of the Plan and any of the functions assigned to it in this
 
Plan, including the power to approve Awards to Employees who are not Covered Employees. Such delegation may be revoked at any time. All determinations and decisions of any delegate as to any disputed question arising under the Plan, including questions of construction and interpretation, shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all parties.
8.2. . If the Administrator deems any person entitled to receive any amount under the provisions of the Plan to be incapable of receiving or disbursing the same by reason of minority, illness or infirmity, mental incompetence, or incapacity of any kind, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, (i) apply such amount directly for the comfort, support and maintenance of such person; (ii) reimburse any person for any such support theretofore supplied to the person entitled to receive any such payment; (iii) pay such amount to any person selected by the Administrator to disburse it for such comfort, support and maintenance, including without limitation, any relative who has undertaken, wholly or partially, the expense of such person's comfort, care and maintenance, or any institution in whose care or custody the person entitled to the amount may be; or (iv) with respect to any amount due to a minor, deposit such amount to his or her credit in any savings or commercial bank of the Administrator s choice, direct that such distribution be paid to the legal guardian, or if none, to a parent of such person or a responsible adult with whom the minor maintains his or her residence, or to the custodian for such person under the Uniform Gift to Minors Act or Gift to Minors Act, if such payment is permitted by the laws of the state in which the minor resides. Payment pursuant to this Section 8.2 shall fully discharge the Company, the Board, the Committee, the Administrator, and the Plan from further liability on account thereof.
Facility of Payment
Article 9. Amendments
The Committee, without notice, at any time and from time to time, may modify or amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Plan, or suspend or terminate it entirely; provided, however, that no such modification, amendment, suspension, or termination may, without the consent of a Participant, materially reduce the right of a Participant to a payment or distribution hereunder to which he or she has already become entitled, as determined under Articles 4 and 6 hereof. Shareholder approval of any amendment will be required only as required by Applicable Law. No new Award may be granted during any period of suspension of the Plan or after termination of the Plan.
Article 10. Miscellaneous
10.1. . The Plan and all agreements hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio, except as to matters pre-empted or governed by federal law.
Choice of Law
10.2. . The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments under the Plan any federal, state, or local taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to any Final Bonus.
Withholding Taxes
10.3. . Nothing contained in this Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements for any Participant.
Additional Arrangements
10.4. . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular, and the singular shall include the plural.
Gender and Number
 
10.5. . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
10.6. . All obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company.
Successors
10.7. . Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan. Any reference to a section (other than to a section of the Plan) shall also include a successor to such section.
Titles; Construction
 
 

Exhibit 10.03
Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has granted to (the "Grantee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase Common Shares, without par value (the "Shares"), of the Company for a total purchase price of $ (i.e., the equivalent of $ for each full Share). The Option has been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Outside Directors Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and shall include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the following provisions of this agreement. Capitalized terms used herein which are not specifically defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Option, unless previously forfeited, shall vest and become exercisable on , and shall expire on . Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), the Option shall vest in full.
            
            
            
            
            
            
1. . At any time when the Option is exercisable under the Plan, the Option shall be exercisable from time to time by written notice to the Company (the date such notice is received by the Company, the "Exercise Date") which shall:
Method of Exercise
(a) state that the Option is thereby being exercised, the number of Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised, each person in whose name any certificates for the Shares should be registered and his or her address and social security number;
(b) be signed by the person or persons entitled to exercise the Option and, if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than the Grantee, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all applicable laws and regulations; and
(c) contain such representations, warranties and agreements with respect to the investment intent of such person or persons in form and substance satisfactory to counsel for the Company.
2. . The full exercise price for the Option shall be paid to the Company: (i) in cash, (ii) by delivery of Shares with a fair market value equal to the total exercise price at the time of exercise, (iii) by attestation of ownership of such already-owned Shares, (iv) by delivery of cash on the extension of credit by a broker-dealer to whom the Grantee (or other person authorized to exercise the Option) has submitted a notice of exercise or an irrevocable election to effect such extension of credit, or (v) by a combination of the preceding methods. Any Shares delivered or attested to in payment of an exercise price shall be valued as of the Exercise Date.
Payment of Exercise Price
3. . The Option shall be transferable (I) at the Grantee's death, by the Grantee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by the Grantee during the Grantee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces, or nephews of the Grantee, or any other persons sharing the Grantee's
Transferability
household (other than tenants or employees) (collectively, "Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of the Grantee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which the Grantee or such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which the Grantee or such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited, except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in Subsections II(a), (b), or (c), above, with respect to the original Grantee. The Committee may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting interests are owned by the Grantee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within ten days of any transfer, the Grantee shall notify the Stock Option Administrator of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this agreement, references to the original Grantee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of Grantee's termination of service on the Board provided in Section 4 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Grantee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in Section 4. The conduct prohibited of Grantee in Section 5 hereof shall continue to be prohibited of Grantee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from the Grantee to the same extent as would have been the case of the Grantee had the Option not been transferred. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of the Option of the Grantee's termination of service on the Board for any reason. The Grantee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of Section 5 of this agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 10(d) of the Plan following transfer of the Option.
4. .
Termination of Service on the Board
(a) . If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board by reason of death, any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death. The Option may thereafter be exercised by any transferee of Grantee, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Grantee under the will of Grantee until expiration of the original term of the Option.
Termination of Service by Death
(b) . If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board for any reason other than death, any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of termination of service on the Board will automatically terminate on the date of such termination of service. Any unexercised portion of the Option which otherwise is exercisable by the Grantee (or any transferee) shall remain exercisable until expiration of the original term of the Option; provided, however, that upon the discharge of the Grantee as a Director of the Company for Cause (as defined below), the Option (whether then held by Grantee or any transferee) shall immediately lapse and be of no further force or effect. For purposes of this agreement, "Cause" means on account of any act of fraud or intentional misrepresentation or embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets of the Company or any subsidiary, or the intentional and repeated violation of the written policies or procedures of the Company.
Other Termination of Service
5. . For so long as Grantee continues as a Director of the Company and for three years following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, Grantee
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
 
agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Grantee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the definition of such conduct below, then: (a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and (b) the Grantee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by the Grantee or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the market value of the Shares underlying the Option on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Shares underlying the Option), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), less $1.00. If Grantee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Board, but including any period between the time of Grantee's termination of service on the Board and the time Grantee engaged in Competitor Triggering Conduct.
As used herein, "Triggering Conduct" shall include disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties as a Director of the Company any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Company or its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"); violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by the Grantee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer, or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the twelve (12) months prior to the termination of employment or service with the Cardinal Group; any action by Grantee and/or Grantee's representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Grantee; and breaching any provision of any benefit or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used herein, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Grantee's service as a Director or within one year following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor") including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Grantee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Grantee's service as a Director of the Company and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. For purposes of this agreement, the nature and extent of Grantee's activities, if any, disclosed to and reviewed by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board (the "Nominating Committee") prior to the date of Grantee's termination of service on the Board shall not, unless specified to the contrary by the Nominating Committee in a written notice given to Grantee, be deemed to be Competitor Triggering Conduct.The Committee shall resolve in good faith any disputes concerning whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, and any such determination by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The Grantee may be released from Grantee's obligations under this Section 5 only if the Committee (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company.
 
Nothing in this Section 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. However, this Section 5 does prohibit certain conduct while Grantee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this agreement under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the Grantee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Grantee agrees to provide the Company with at least ten (10) days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Section 5 and of the Grantee's continuing obligations contained herein.
No provision of this agreement shall diminish, negate, or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Grantee may be a party, including but not limited to the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this agreement, the provisions of this agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Grantee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Section 5 are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Grantee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of exposing Grantee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Grantee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Grantee, and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Grantee without including the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in this Section 5 are ancillary to or part of an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6. . By accepting this Option, the Grantee consents to a deduction from and set-off against any amounts owed to the Grantee by the Company from time to time (including but not limited to amounts owed to the Grantee as Director fees, severance payments, or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Company by the Grantee under this agreement.
Right of Set-Off
7. . The Option is subject to all restrictions in this agreement or in the Plan. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require the Grantee or his or her transferee or successor to make such representation and warranties and to enter into such agreements as are necessary to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters reasonably requested by counsel for the Company.
Restrictions on Exercise
8. . As a condition to receipt of the Option, Grantee hereby agrees to hold his or her After-Tax Net Profit in Shares until the first anniversary of the exercise of all or a portion of the Option (or, if earlier, the date of Grantee's termination of service on the Board). "After-Tax Net Profit" means the total dollar value of the Shares that Grantee elects to exercise under this Option at the time of exercise, minus the total of (i) the exercise price to purchase these Shares, and (ii) the amount of all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other tax and other similar fees that are expected to be incurred in connection with the exercise, determined based upon the highest applicable marginal rate for each such tax or fee.
Holding Period Requirement
9. . This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a
Governing Law/Venue
 
substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the Option and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of the agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Grantee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Section 5 of this agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect the Grantee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that, in the event of any violation by Grantee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Grantee, and Grantee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Company hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Company to institute legal proceedings under this agreement, Grantee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this agreement.
10. .The parties agree that the interpretation of this agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Committee. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Committee with regard to the interpretation of this agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this agreement. The Committee may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Company designated by the Committee (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Committee or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, or such other material as the Committee or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Committee or its designee and that any decision of the Committee or its designee relating to this agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Committee
11. .The Option grant evidenced by this Agreement shall at the discretion of the Committee, be forfeited if this Agreement is not executed by Grantee and returned to the Company within 90 days of the Grant Date set forth below.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
 
 
The Grantee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is attached to this Agreement, and represents that he/she is familiar with all provisions of the Plan; and (b) accepts this Agreement and the Option granted to him/her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement. The Grantee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders and a copy of the Plan Description dated February 23, 2006, pertaining to the Plan.
 
 

Exhibit 10.04
On (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has granted to ("Grantee") Restricted Share Units (the "Restricted Share Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") to Grantee as set forth herein. The Restricted Share Units have been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Outside Directors Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Share Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall control. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
            
            
            
1. . Subject to the provisions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full (100%) on (the "Vesting Date"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board"), the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full.
Vesting
                    
2. . The Restricted Share Units shall not be transferable.
Transferability
3. . If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board prior to the vesting of the Restricted Share Units for any reason other than Grantee's death, all of the then unvested Restricted Share Units shall be forfeited by Grantee. If the Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board prior to the vesting of the Restricted Share Units by reason of Grantee's death, then such Restricted Share Units shall vest in full and not be forfeited.
Termination of Service on the Board
4. . For so long as Grantee continues as a Director of the Company and for three years following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, Grantee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Grantee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" below, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) any Restricted Share Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and
(b) Grantee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Grantee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Share Units pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Share Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Grantee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-
Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Grantee's termination of service on the Board, but including any period between the time of Grantee's termination of service on the Board and the time Grantee engaged in Competitor Triggering Conduct.
As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties as a Director of the Company any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Company or its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"); violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by the Grantee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer, or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the twelve (12) months prior to the termination of employment or service with the Cardinal Group; any action by Grantee and/or Grantee's representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Grantee; and breaching any provision of any benefit or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Grantee's service as a Director or within one year following Grantee's termination of service on the Board, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor") including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Grantee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Grantee's service as a Director of the Company and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur. For purposes of this Agreement, the nature and extent of Grantee's activities, if any, disclosed to and reviewed by the Nominating and Governance Committee of the Board (the "Nominating Committee") prior to the date of Grantee's termination of service on the Board shall not, unless specified to the contrary by the Nominating Committee in a written notice given to Grantee, be deemed to be Competitor Triggering Conduct. The Committee shall resolve in good faith any disputes concerning whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, and any such determination by the Committee shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons. The Grantee may be released from Grantee's obligations under this Paragraph 4 only if the Committee (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company.
Nothing in this Paragraph 4 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. However, this Paragraph 4 does prohibit certain conduct while Grantee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including but not limited to the Grantee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Grantee agrees to provide the Company with at least ten days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant, advisor, or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 4 and of the Grantee's continuing obligations contained herein.
No provision of this Agreement shall diminish, negate, or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Grantee may be a party, including but not limited to the then-most recent version of the Certificate of Compliance with Company Policies and/or Certificate of
 
Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Grantee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Paragraph 4 are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Grantee's receipt of the Restricted Share Units, in consideration of exposing Grantee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Grantee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Share Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Grantee, and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Share Units to Grantee without including the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in this Paragraph 4 are ancillary to or part of an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
5. . Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 4 of this Agreement, and unless Grantee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units, Grantee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Grantee) the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units on the Vesting Date; provided, however, that, subject to the next sentence, in the event that the Restricted Share Units vest prior to the Vesting Date as a result of the death of Grantee or as a result of a Change of Control, Grantee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date of such vesting. Notwithstanding the proviso of the preceding sentence, if the Restricted Share Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Change of Control under circumstances where such occurrence would not qualify as a permissible date of distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, such proviso shall not apply and Grantee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that would have applied absent such proviso. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to procedures established by the Company in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Payment
6. . Grantee shall not receive cash dividends on the Restricted Share Units but instead shall, with respect to each Restricted Share Unit, receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Share represented by such unit. Cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to the Vesting Date shall be accrued until the Vesting Date and paid thereon (subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying Restricted Share Units award). Elections to defer receipt of the cash payments in lieu of cash dividends beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Committee pursuant to procedures established by the Company in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Dividends
7. . By accepting these Restricted Share Units, Grantee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Grantee by the Company from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Grantee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Company by Grantee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
8. . As a condition to receipt of the Restricted Share Units, Grantee hereby agrees to hold, until the first anniversary of the Vesting Date (or, if earlier, the date Grantee ceases to be a member of the Board), the After-Tax Net Profit in Shares issued pursuant to settlement of such units. "After-Tax Net Profit" means the total dollar value of the Shares that Grantee
Holding Period Requirement
 
receives at settlement, minus the amount of all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other tax and other similar fees that are expected to be incurred in connection with the vesting of the Award, determined based upon the highest applicable marginal rate for each such tax or fee.
9. . Grantee shall have no rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Share Units, including, without limitation, Grantee shall not have the right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units.
No Shareholder Rights
10. . Grantee may designate a beneficiary to receive any Shares to which the Grantee is entitled with respect to the Restricted Share Units which vest as a result of Grantee's death. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Grantee engages in Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct as herein defined, the Restricted Share Units subject to such beneficiary designation shall be subject to the Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules and the Company's Right of Set-Off or other right of recovery set forth in this Agreement, and all rights of the beneficiary shall be subordinated to the rights of the Company pursuant to such provisions of this Agreement. Grantee acknowledges that the Company may exercise all rights under this Agreement and the Plan against Grantee and Grantee's estate, heirs, lineal descendants and personal representatives and shall not be limited to exercising its rights against Grantee's beneficiary.
Beneficiary Designation
11. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Share Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of the Agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio, and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts. Grantee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraph 4 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect the Grantee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that, in the event of any violation by Grantee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Grantee contained in this Agreement, the Company shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Grantee, and Grantee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to the rights and remedies afforded the Company hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Company to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Grantee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Governing Law/Venue
12. .The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Committee. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Committee with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Committee may delegate its functions
Action by the Committee
 
under this Agreement to an officer of the Company designated by the Committee (hereinafter the "Designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Committee or its Designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, or such other material as the Committee or its Designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Committee or its Designee and that any decision of the Committee or its Designee relating to this Agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
13. . The Restricted Share Units grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Committee, be forfeited if this Agreement is not executed by Grantee and returned to the Company within 90 days of the Grant Date set forth below.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
 
 
Grantee hereby: (a) acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders, and a copy of the Plan Description dated February 23, 2006 pertaining to the Plan; (b) accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Share Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement; (c) represents and warrants to the Company that he or she is purchasing the Restricted Share Units for his or her own account, for investment, and not with a view to or any present intention of selling or distributing the Restricted Share Units either now or at any specific or determinable future time or period or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of any predetermined or reasonably foreseeable event; and (d) agrees that no transfer of the Shares delivered in respect of the Restricted Share Units shall be made unless the Shares have been duly registered under all applicable Federal and state securities laws pursuant to a then-effective registration which contemplates the proposed transfer or unless the Company has received a written opinion of, or satisfactory to, its legal counsel that the proposed transfer is exempt from such registration.
 
 


