FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20061027090202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 27, 2006, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.01.
Furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.02 is a discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 11:00 a.m. EDT on October 27, 2006, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, Jeffrey W. Henderson, will discuss the Company's results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The Company is furnishing Mr. Henderson's slide presentation for the conference call as Exhibit 99.03 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, OH 43017
www.cardinalhealth.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 Cardinal Health, the leading provider of products and services supporting the health-care industry, today announced first-quarter results, with revenue growth of 11 percent to $21.4 billion and earnings growth of 26 percent led by a strong quarter for its Healthcare Supply Chain Services-Pharmaceutical segment.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Oct. 27, 2006
For the first quarter ended Sept. 30, earnings from continuing operations reached $300 million, resulting in a 33-percent increase in diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations to $0.73.
"We executed well in our Healthcare Supply Chain Services-Pharmaceutical segment, which drove strong revenue and earnings growth for the company during the quarter," said R. Kerry Clark, president and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. "Our other segments contributed more than 40 percent of total operating earnings, reflecting the diversity of our health-care products and services, and highlighting a key differentiator Cardinal Health brings to both customers and shareholders. In particular, our Medical Products Manufacturing segment had an excellent quarter, its first as a standalone segment for Cardinal Health."
Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations
1
increased 27 percent to $320 million and non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations
2
rose 32 percent to $0.78. A $16.7 million tax reserve adjustment added $0.04 to EPS in the period. Cardinal Health also reserved $13.5 million, or $0.02 per share, for a previously disclosed recall of its Alaris SE products.
Cardinal Health Reports First-Quarter Results
Page 2
Q1 FY07 Summary
 
First quarter segment results:
 
 
 
 
Cardinal Health Reports First-Quarter Results
Page 3
 
Additional first-quarter and recent highlights include:
 
 
 
 
 
Outlook
For fiscal 2007, Cardinal Health reiterated that it expects non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations to be $3.50 to $3.70.
Conference Call
Cardinal Health will host a conference call and webcast at 11 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) to discuss its results. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investor page at
www.cardinalhealth.com
. The conference call may also be accessed by calling 617-597-5313, conference passcode 71416649. An audio replay is expected to be available until 11 p.m. on Nov. 3 at 617-801-6888, passcode 85650472. A transcript and audio replay will also be available at
www.cardinalhealth.com
.
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is an $81 billion, global company serving the health-care industry with a broad portfolio of products and services. Through its diverse offerings, Cardinal Health delivers health-care solutions that help customers reduce their costs, improve safety and productivity, and deliver better care to patients. The company manufactures, packages and distributes pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, offers a range of clinical services and develops automation products that improve the management and delivery of supplies and medication for hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies. Ranked No. 19 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 55,000 people on six continents. More information about the company may be found at
www.cardinalhealth.com
.
 
Cardinal Health Reports First-Quarter Results
Page 4
 
A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures and their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is provided in the attached tables and at
http://www.cardinalhealth.com
.
Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: competitive pressures in its various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by or settlement discussions with any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings, including shareholder litigation; difficulties in opening new facilities or fully utilizing existing capacity; the costs, difficulties and uncertainties related the integration of acquired businesses; and general economic and market conditions. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical
 
Clinical Technologies and Services
 
 
See the GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the non-GAAP balances.
 
See the GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the non-GAAP balances.
 
 
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding
 
 
Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents non-GAAP financial measures on a forward-looking basis. These measures include non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations and growth rate, non-GAAP return on equity and non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations. The Company is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because the Company cannot reliably forecast special items and impairment charges and other, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact the Company's future earnings.
GAAP
long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings
Debt:
debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Debt to Total Capital:
earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
provision for income taxes divided by earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations
Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations:
net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations
Operating Cash Flow:
segment operating earnings divided by total operating earnings for all segments
Operating Earnings Mix:
annualized earnings from continuing operations divided by average shareholders' equity
Return on Equity:
[annualized operating earnings multiplied by (one minus effective tax rate from continuing operations)] divided by (average total shareholders' equity plus debt plus unrecorded goodwill)
Return on Invested Capital:
segment revenue divided by total revenue for all segments
Revenue Mix:
NON-GAAP
non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
(current period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations minus prior period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations) divided by prior period non-GAAP EPS from continuing operations
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations Growth Rate:
earnings from continuing operations excluding special items and impairment charges and other, both net of tax
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations:
(current period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations minus prior period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations) divided by prior period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations Growth Rate:
(provision for income taxes adjusted for special items) divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for special items)
Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations:
net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Net Debt to Capital:
debt minus (cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale)
Net Debt:
operating earnings excluding special items and impairment charges and other
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings:
(current period non-GAAP operating earnings minus prior period non-GAAP operating earnings) divided by prior period non-GAAP operating earnings
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings Growth Rate:
(annualized current period earnings from continuing operations plus special items minus special items tax benefit) divided by average shareholders' equity
Non-GAAP Return on Equity:
[(annualized operating earnings excluding special items) multiplied by (one minus non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations)] divided by (average total shareholders' equity plus debt plus unrecorded goodwill)
Non-GAAP Return on Invested Capital:

Exhibit 99.02
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company's") earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable historical GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the amounts that have been adjusted as a supplemental metric to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the earnings release.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measures "non-GAAP operating earnings" and "non-GAAP operating earnings growth rate." These non-GAAP financial measures exclude special items and impairment charges and other. The Company's "special items" primarily consist of costs relating to the integration of previously-acquired companies, which may include employee-related costs, asset impairments and other exit costs and integration costs, or costs of restructuring operations, which may include employee-related costs, asset impairments and facility exit costs. The Company also records as special items settlements of significant lawsuits that are infrequent or unusual in nature. The Company records as special items legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the Securities and Exchange Commission investigation and Audit Committee internal review and related matters. The Company also records, from time to time, material charges that are one-time, unusual or infrequent in nature as special items. For further discussion of items classified as special items, see the notes to the financial statements contained in the Company's Annual and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Non-GAAP operating earnings and non-GAAP operating earnings growth rate.
As discussed above, the Company classifies certain asset impairments related to restructurings in special items, which are included in operating earnings within the consolidated statements of earnings. Asset impairments and gains and losses from the sale of assets not eligible to be classified as special items or discontinued operations are classified within "impairment charges and other" within the consolidated statements of earnings. For further discussion of items classified as impairment charges and other, see the notes to the financial statements contained in the Company's Annual and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation and other asset impairments and gains and losses from the sale of assets. While these special items and impairment charges and other may be recurring, management believes that these items and charges are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP measures is that the measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP measures in combination with operating earnings and operating earnings growth rate (the most comparable GAAP measures) because the non-GAAP measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measures. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items and impairment charges and other separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measures "non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations," and "non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations growth rate." These non-GAAP financial measures exclude special items and impairment charges and other. See the discussion of special items and impairment charges and other above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and non-GAAP operating earnings growth rate" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items and impairment charges and other classifications. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation and other asset impairments and gains and losses from the sale of assets. While these special items and impairment charges and other may be recurring, management believes that these items and charges are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations growth rate.
The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP measures in combination with earnings from continuing operations and earnings from continuing operations growth rate (the most comparable GAAP measures) because the non-GAAP measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measures. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items and impairment charges and other separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes special items and impairment charges and other. See the discussion of special items and impairment charges and other above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and non-GAAP operating earnings growth rate" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items and impairment charges and other classifications. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation and other asset impairments and gains and losses from the sale of assets. While these special items and impairment charges and other may be recurring, management believes that these items and charges are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.
The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with diluted earnings per share from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measure) because the non-GAAP measure does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items and impairment charges and other separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP return on equity." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes special items. See the discussion of special items above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and non-GAAP operating earnings
Non-GAAP return on equity.
 
growth rate" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use a financial measure that does not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with return on equity (the most comparable GAAP measure) because the non-GAAP measure does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP return on invested capital." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes special items. See the discussion of special items above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and non-GAAP operating earnings growth rate" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use a financial measure that does not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
Non-GAAP return on invested capital.
The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with return on invested capital (the most comparable GAAP measure) because the non-GAAP measure does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes special items. See the discussion of special items above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and non-GAAP operating earnings growth rate" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses this non-GAAP measure to evaluate the Company's performance because special items may be taxed differently than other items.
Non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations.
The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with effective tax rate from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measure) because the non-GAAP measure does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be lower or lower than most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find this non-GAAP measure useful to evaluate the Company's future performance because special items may have a different tax impact than other items.
The Company also presents the non-GAAP financial measure "net debt to
Net debt to capital.
 
capital," which is net debt divided by capital (net debt plus total shareholders' equity). "Net debt," also a non-GAAP financial measure, is debt (the most comparable GAAP measure, calculated as long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings) minus cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale. Management believes that net debt to capital is an important measure to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet. With respect to net debt, cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale are subtracted from the GAAP measure because they could be used to reduce the Company's debt obligations.
The limitation associated with using net debt is that it subtracts cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale and therefore may imply that there is less Company debt than the most comparable GAAP measure indicates. This limitation is best addressed by using net debt in combination with debt because net debt may be significantly lower than the GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet.
 



