FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20060427081610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 27, 2006, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing its results for the quarter and nine months ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.01.
     Furnished under this report as Exhibit 99.02 is a discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
     See the information in Item 2.06 below.
Item 2.06 Material Impairments
     On April 26, 2006, the Company determined that charges were necessary for impairment of goodwill, long-lived assets and current assets of held-for-sale operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. The charges are the result of the Company's decision to divest the Healthcare Marketing Services ("HMS") business within its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment and the United Kingdom-based Intercare Pharmaceutical Distribution ("IPD") business within its Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment. The Company recorded impairment charges in the quarter ended March 31, 2006 of approximately $152.7 million and $85.5 million, respectively, before taxes related to the HMS and IPD businesses. The Company is reporting HMS and IPD as discontinued operations as of March 31, 2006, for financial statement purposes. The Company does not expect the impairments to result in future cash charges.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
     During a conference call scheduled to be held at 11:00 a.m. EDT on April 27, 2006, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, Jeffrey W. Henderson, will discuss the Company's results for the quarter and nine months ended March 31, 2006. The Company is furnishing Mr. Henderson's slide presentation for the conference call as Exhibit 99.03 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)    Exhibits
        99.01   Press release issued by the Company on April 27, 2006, and furnished under this report.
        99.02   Information released by the Company on April 27, 2006, and furnished under this report.
        99.03   Slide presentation furnished under this report.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
99.01   Press release issued by the Company on April 27, 2006, and furnished under this report.
99.02   Information released by the Company on April 27, 2006, and furnished under this report.
99.03   Slide presentation furnished under this report.

 
Exhibit 99.01
7000 Cardinal Place Dublin,OH 43017 www.cardinalhealth.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 Third-quarter earnings for Cardinal Health, the leading provider of products and services supporting the health-care industry, continued to strengthen sequentially as revenue reached a record level and operating margins improved in all segments from the first half of the fiscal year.
DUBLIN, Ohio, April 27, 2006
During the quarter ended March 31, revenue increased 9 percent to $20.6 billion from $19 billion last year. Operating earnings of $559 million declined 5 percent from $591 million, primarily due to greater seasonality associated with its former buy-and-hold' business model during the third quarter of fiscal 2005. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations declined 3 percent to $0.83 from $0.86 in the prior year.
Results improved on a sequential basis, with operating earnings rising 13 percent and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increasing 15 percent. A strong quarter for pharmaceutical distribution and ongoing operational improvements in many Cardinal Health businesses contributed to the quarter-over-quarter gains.
     
Q3 FY06 Earnings Summary
 
Sequential Improvements Reflect Momentum in Cardinal Health's Core Businesses During Third Quarter Page 2
"We made considerable progress during the third quarter to focus our portfolio of businesses, invest in strategic areas such as new products and shared services, and continue to integrate operations for greater efficiency," said Chairman Robert D. Walter. "We have excellent momentum in our core businesses heading into the fourth quarter."
     
FY 2006 Revenue, Operating Earnings Trend
(See attached tables or for definitions of the non-GAAP measures used in this release, a reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to their comparable GAAP measures, and a schedule of notable items.)
www.cardinalhealth.com
President and Chief Executive Officer R. Kerry Clark, who joined Cardinal Health on April 17, said: "My first 2 weeks at Cardinal Health have been spent meeting with employees and reviewing parts of our business, which has reinforced all the reasons why I joined the company and leaves me energized for our future. With the transition to a new business model in pharmaceutical distribution completed, we see stable margins and less volatility in our largest segment; we have good performance on a sequential basis across the company; and we had a standout quarter in our clinical technologies and services business, with strong demand and great leverage to the earnings line."
During the quarter, Cardinal Health took steps to divest certain businesses and made selective acquisitions, as part of its strategy to focus on core, market-leading products and services.
Enhancing Core Business through Divestitures and Acquisitions
These steps include:
 
Sequential Improvements Reflect Momentum in Cardinal Health's Core Businesses During Third Quarter Page 3
"Consistent with our stated strategy, we are focused on business fundamentals and organic growth, and will deploy capital for acquisitions that build scale and complement our existing product and service portfolio, as we did during the quarter in the pharmaceutical distribution and medical products segments," Walter added. "With divestitures, our intent is to optimize our portfolio and focus on those products and services that can deliver the greatest value to our customers and shareholders."
Operating cash flow was $271 million and nearly $1.7 billion for the year-to-date. The company's previously stated, longer-term goal is to return up to 50 percent of operating cash flow to shareholders through share repurchase and dividends. As of March 31, Cardinal Health completed its $1 billion share repurchase program that was announced in June 2005. The company also announced today an additional $500 million program to repurchase shares.
Returning Operating Cash Flow to Shareholders
Revenue for the fiscal year-to-date climbed 9 percent to nearly $60 billion and operating earnings improved 12 percent from the prior year to $1.4 billion. Earnings from continuing operations rose 12 percent to $906 million. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.11, an increase of 15 percent from the prior year.
Year-to-Date Results
     
Year-to-Date FY06 Earnings Summary
Operating margins continued to strengthen in all business segments from the first half of the fiscal year, even as selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased 15 percent
Third-Quarter Segment Results
 
Sequential Improvements Reflect Momentum in Cardinal Health's Core Businesses During Third Quarter Page 4
during the quarter, 7 percentage points of which related to equity compensation that the company began to recognize as an expense this fiscal year. The balance of the increase is due in part to a larger accrual for incentive compensation based on current year results and planned investments the company is making to increase efficiency and ultimately lower costs across the business segments. As in prior quarters, segment earnings continue to be negatively affected by the allocation of these corporate costs.
(See attached tables or the Investors page on for specific segment results.)
www.cardinalhealth.com
Revenue for the Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services segment grew 10 percent during the quarter to $17.1 billion, including a 21 percent increase in bulk sales, primarily to retail chain customers, from the prior year to $7.6 billion. Operating earnings declined 14 percent to $289 million. This expected decline compared to last year is due to less earnings seasonality as the company now has 70 percent of its branded margin linked to non-seasonal distribution service fees. Distribution service agreements with branded manufacturers, many signed last year, have reduced a large portion of this earnings seasonality for fiscal 2006.
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
The pricing environment during the quarter remained competitive, but expense controls kept operating margins stable during the first nine months of the fiscal year. SG&A as a percent of revenue remained even with the prior year as the company continued to optimize its distribution network. Compliance by manufacturers with distribution services agreements remained high and the company's National Logistics Center continued to add new customers.
Operating earnings rose 20 percent from the second quarter and operating margins improved more than 30 basis points from the first half of the fiscal year.
Medical Products and Services' revenue was slightly ahead of the prior year at $2.5 billion. Within the medical products manufacturing and distribution businesses, revenue grew 6 percent during the quarter. Pressure on revenue growth came from an expected decline in the company's specialty pharmaceutical distribution (SPD) unit, which negatively affected growth in the segment by 6 percentage points. Operating earnings declined 5 percent from the prior year to $173 million, and were also lowered by the declines in SPD and the allocation of increased corporate costs.
Medical Products and Services
Cardinal Health announced today it will sell a substantial portion of the SPD business to OTN, therefore removing the revenue and earnings associated with these businesses from the segment following the close of the transaction. For fiscal 2006, year-to-date revenue for these affected businesses was approximately $1.3 billion.
Growth in medical products distribution was led by strong demand from new prime vendor contracts, performance in recently acquired Source Medical in Canada, as well as improving margins from private-label products. In medical products manufacturing, sales growth was led by demand for Cardinal Health's glove and respiratory products. Earnings from international operations were negatively affected by foreign exchange rates and slower sales in Europe.
Operating earnings increased 13 percent from the second quarter and operating margins improved 105 basis points from the first half of the year.
 
Sequential Improvements Reflect Momentum in Cardinal Health's Core Businesses During Third Quarter Page 5
Revenue for the Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment reached $715 million, an increase of 6 percent from the prior year, while operating earnings declined 2 percent from the prior year to $78 million.
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
The oral technologies, packaging services and nuclear pharmacy services businesses grew revenue and earnings over the prior year, with sequential gains in packaging services and nuclear pharmacy services.
The company continued to address production issues within its Albuquerque, N.M. sterile-manufacturing facility during the quarter. It also made progress at its new sterile-manufacturing facility in North Raleigh with 5 customers entering into agreements for pilot projects that could eventually go to full-scale production at the site.
Operating earnings declined 6 percent from the second quarter; however operating margins improved by more than 140 basis points from the first half of the year. Operating earnings are expected to improve substantially during the fourth quarter due to an increase in production in sterile manufacturing and continued steady performance in the oral technologies, nuclear pharmacy services and packaging services businesses. The company continues to expect second-half margin improvement in the segment compared to the first half of fiscal 2006.
Revenue for the Clinical Technologies and Services segment rose 15 percent from the prior year to $603 million, led by 23 percent growth for Alaris and Pyxis products. Revenue for clinical services and consulting grew 8 percent. Operating earnings for the segment increased 73 percent from the prior year to $101 million.
Clinical Technologies and Services
The sharp increase in operating earnings resulted from another quarter of strong demand, combined with expense controls, manufacturing efficiency and ongoing improvements to customer service and the Pyxis installation process. SG&A as a percent of sales declined and operating margins increased significantly from the prior year.
Committed contracts were again strong for both Alaris and Pyxis products, with the Pyxis backlog ending the quarter at $243 million. Customers continued to transition to Cardinal Health's Pyxis MedStation 3000, which accounted for nearly 75 percent of new Pyxis orders during the quarter. In addition, approximately 40 percent of Alaris product sales during the quarter were from competitive displacements, with channel placements up significantly over last year.
Operating earnings increased 7 percent from the second quarter and third-quarter operating margins improved more than 200 basis points from the first half of the year.
Cardinal Health reaffirmed its fiscal 2006 earnings-per-share guidance of $3.30 to $3.55, excluding special items, the impact of equity compensation expenses and impairment, non-recurring and other items.
Outlook
"With nine months of the fiscal year complete, we now have increased confidence that we will finish the year in the upper half of the EPS range we've provided," Walter said.
 
Sequential Improvements Reflect Momentum in Cardinal Health's Core Businesses During Third Quarter Page 6
The company also revised its forecast for equity compensation expenses to be approximately $0.35 to $0.37 per share for the full year, from $0.32 to $0.34 per share, due to recent management changes and impact of the stock price. Cardinal Health continues to expect operating margins in the second half of fiscal 2006 to be stronger than in the first half.
Over the long term, the company expects 12 percent to 15 percent annual growth in earnings per share, excluding special items and impairment, non-recurring and other items. It also has an annual goal of returning up to 50 percent of operating cash flow to shareholders through share buy-backs and dividends. Return on equity excluding special items and the impact of equity compensation expenses is expected to be in the range of 15 percent to 20 percent. It is also the company's goal to increase dividends to up to 20 percent of earnings per share during the next several years.
Cardinal Health will host a conference call and webcast at 11 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time (EDT) to discuss its third-quarter results. To access the discussion, go to the Investors page at www.cardinalhealth.com or dial 706-634-5100, passcode 7321519. An audio replay will be available until 11 p.m. on April 29 at 706-645-9291, passcode 7321519. A transcript and audio replay will also be available at .
Conference Call
http://www.cardinalhealth.com
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $75 billion, global company serving the health-care industry with a broad portfolio of products and services. Through its diverse offerings, Cardinal Health delivers integrated health-care solutions that help customers reduce their costs, improve efficiency and deliver better care to patients. The company manufactures, packages and distributes pharmaceuticals and medical supplies, offers a range of clinical services and develops automation products that improve the management and delivery of supplies and medication for hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies. Ranked No. 19 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 55,000 people on six continents. More information about the company may be found at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 8-K and Form 10-Q reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: the costs, difficulties, and uncertainties related to the implementation of organizational changes and the integration of acquired businesses; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; difficulties and uncertainties related to transitions in senior management; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by or settlement discussions with any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings; the impact of previously announced restatements; difficulties or delays or increased costs in implementing Cardinal Health's global restructuring program; difficulties in opening new facilities or fully utilizing existing capacity; with respect to future dividends, the decision by the board of directors to declare such dividends, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's surplus, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects at the time any such action is considered; with respect to future share repurchases, the approval of the board of directors, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's then-current stock price, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects as well as alternatives available to Cardinal Health at the time any such action is considered; and general economic and market conditions. Cardinal Health does not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
The following table summarizes the impact of special items on net earnings and diluted earnings per Common Share in the quarters in which they were recorded:
 
The following table summarizes the impact of special items on net earnings and diluted earnings per Common Share in the periods in which they were recorded:
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
Medical Products and Services
Clinical Technologies and Services
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services
Medical Products and Services
Clinical Technologies and Services
 
 
 
Pharmaceutical Distribution and Provider Services
Medical Products and Services
Clinical Technologies and Services
 
 
 
See the GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the balances excluding special items and equity compensation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents non-GAAP financial measures on a forward-looking basis. These measures may include: fiscal 2006 earnings per share guidance, excluding special items, the impact of equity compensation expenses and impairment, non-recurring and other items; long-term earnings per share growth rate, excluding special items and impairment, non-recurring and other items; return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation; and segment operating earnings growth rate, excluding the impact of the change in corporate allocation methodology, the impact of expensing equity compensation and non-recurring and other items.
The Company currently expects fiscal 2006 equity compensation expense of approximately $0.35 to $0.37 per share. With the exception of this information, the Company is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because the Company cannot reliably forecast special items and impairment, non-recurring and other items, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Reconciling information regarding the impact of the change in corporate allocation methodology is also unavailable. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact the Company's future net earnings and cash flows.
 
 
debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders' equity)
GAAP
Debt to Total Capital:
current period long-term obligations plus current period short-term borrowings
Debt:
gross margin divided by selling, general and administrative expenses
Margin per Expense Dollar:
net cash provided by operating activities
Operating Cash Flow:
current period operating earnings divided by total segment operating earnings
Operating Earnings Mix:
current period revenue divided by total segment revenue
Revenue Mix:
 
earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items net of tax divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
NON-GAAP
Diluted Earnings per Share, Excluding Special Items:
current period earnings from continuing operations adjusted to exclude special items net of tax
Earnings from Continuing Operations, Excluding Special Items:
(current period earnings from continuing operations excluding special items minus prior period earnings from continuing operations excluding special items) divided by prior period earnings from continuing operations excluding special items
Earnings from Continuing Operations Growth Rate, Excluding Special Items:
current period earnings from continuing operations excluding special items divided by current period revenue
Earnings from Continuing Operations Ratio to Revenue, Excluding Special Items:
[(earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for special items and equity compensation) minus (earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items, net of tax and equity compensation, net of tax)] divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for special items and equity compensation)
Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
 
net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Net Debt to Capital:
(long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings) minus (cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale)
Net Debt:
current period operating earnings adjusted to exclude current period special items
Operating Earnings, Excluding Special Items:
(current period operating earnings excluding special items minus prior period operating earnings excluding special items) divided by prior period operating earnings excluding special items
Operating Earnings Growth Rate, Excluding Special Items:
current period operating earnings excluding special items divided by current period revenue
Operating Earnings Ratio to Revenue (Operating Margin), Excluding Special Items:
 
current period operating earnings adjusted to exclude current period special items and equity compensation
Operating Margin, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
(annualized current period earnings from continuing operations plus special items minus special items tax benefit plus equity compensation minus equity compensation tax benefit) divided by average shareholders' equity adjusted for special items net of tax and equity compensation net of tax
Return on Equity, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
[(annualized current period operating earnings excluding special items and equity compensation) multiplied by (one minus current period effective tax rate from continuing operations excluding special items and equity compensation)] divided by (average total shareholders' equity plus debt plus unrecorded goodwill)
Return on Invested Capital, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
 
total shareholders' equity minus goodwill and other intangibles, net
Tangible Net Worth:
(earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items net of tax, equity compensation net of tax, impairment charges and other net of tax and non-recurring and other items net of tax) divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
FORWARD-LOOKING NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Fiscal 2006 Earnings per Share Guidance, Excluding Special Items, the Impact of Equity Compensation Expenses and Impairment, Non-Recurring and Other Items:
(earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items net of tax, impairment charges and other net of tax and non-recurring and other items net of tax) divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Long-Term Earnings per Share Growth Rate, Excluding Special Items and Impairment, Non-Recurring and Other Items:
annualized current period earnings from continuing operations adjusted for special items net of tax and equity compensation net of tax divided by average shareholders' equity adjusted for special items net of tax and equity compensation net of tax
Return on Equity, Excluding Special Items and Equity Compensation:
current period operating earnings adjusted for the impact of the change in corporate allocation methodology, equity compensation and non-recurring and other items Impairment charges are not included in the segment operating earnings
Segment Operating Earnings Growth Rate, Excluding the Impact of the Change in Corporate Allocation Methodology, the Impact of Expensing Equity Compensation and Non-Recurring and Other Items:
Note:

 
Exhibit 99.02
     In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company's") earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The Company has provided reconciliations of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable historical GAAP financial measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the amounts that have been adjusted as a supplemental metric to assist readers.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measures "operating earnings, excluding special items," "operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items," and "operating margin (or operating earnings ratio to revenue), excluding special items." The Company"s special items primarily consist of costs relating to the integration of previously-acquired companies, which may include employee-related costs, asset impairments and exit costs, debt issuance cost write-offs and integration costs, or costs of restructuring operations, which may include employee-related costs, facility exit costs and asset impairments. The Company also records as special items settlements of significant lawsuits and, from time to time, other material charges that are infrequent, non-recurring or unusual in nature, such as the costs related to settlement reserves and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the previously-disclosed Securities and Exchange Commission investigation and Audit Committee internal review and related matters. For further discussion of items classified as special items, see the notes to the financial statements contained in the Company's Annual and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items.
     Management uses operating earnings, excluding special items, operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items, and operating margin, excluding special items, to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
 
     The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP measures is that the measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP measures in combination with operating earnings, operating earnings growth rate and operating margin (the most comparable GAAP measures) because the measures excluding special items do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation, to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. In addition, current period equity compensation expense primarily reflects the impact of adopting Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123(R), which revises SFAS No. 123, . For the sake of comparability, management may evaluate Company performance excluding equity compensation.
Operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation.
Share-Based Payment,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
     The limitation associated with using operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation, is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Also, this measure does not take into account the accounting cost of employee stock options. This limitation is best addressed by using operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation, in combination with operating margin (the most comparable GAAP measure) because operating margin, excluding special items and equity compensation, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than GAAP operating margin. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance. In addition, management believes excluding the impact of equity compensation expense is useful because it allows investors to draw comparisons between operating results reported prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the current period, which may obscure underlying trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measures "earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items," "earnings from continuing operations growth rate, excluding special items," and "earnings from continuing operations ratio to revenue, excluding special items." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
Earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items; earnings from continuing operations growth rate, excluding special items; and earnings from continuing operations ratio to revenue, excluding special items.
 
     The limitation associated with using these non-GAAP measures is that these measures exclude items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using these non-GAAP measures in combination with earnings from continuing operations, earnings from continuing operations growth rate and earnings from continuing operations ratio to revenue (the most comparable GAAP measures) because the measures excluding special items do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "diluted earnings per share, excluding special items." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses diluted earnings per share, excluding special items, to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
Diluted earnings per share, excluding special items.
     The limitation associated with using diluted earnings per share, excluding special items, is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using diluted earnings per share, excluding special items, in combination with diluted earnings per share (the most comparable GAAP measures) because diluted earnings per share, excluding special items, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than GAAP diluted earnings per share. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
     The Company presents on a historical basis the non-GAAP financial measure "return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation." The Company also has forecast return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation. See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation, to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. In addition, current period equity compensation expense primarily reflects the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123(R). For the sake of comparability, management may evaluate Company performance excluding equity compensation.
Return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation.
     The limitation associated with using return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation, is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Also, this measure does not take into account the accounting cost of employee stock options. This limitation is best addressed by using return on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation in combination with return on equity (the most comparable GAAP measures) because return
 
on equity, excluding special items and equity compensation, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than GAAP return on equity. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance. In addition, management believes excluding the impact of equity compensation expense is useful because it allows investors to draw comparisons between operating results reported prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the current period, which may obscure underlying trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation, to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing health care products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation. While these special items may be recurring, management believes that these items are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. In addition, current period equity compensation expense primarily reflects the impact of adopting SFAS No. 123(R). For the sake of comparability, management may evaluate Company performance excluding equity compensation.
Return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation.
     The limitation associated with using return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation, is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Also, this measure does not take into account the accounting cost of employee stock options. This limitation is best addressed by using return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation, in combination with return on invested capital (the most comparable GAAP measures) because return on invested capital, excluding special items and equity compensation, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than GAAP return on invested capital. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance. In addition, management believes excluding the impact of equity compensation expense is useful because it allows investors to draw comparisons between operating results reported prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the current period, which may obscure underlying trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation." See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification. Management uses effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation, to evaluate the Company's performance because special items and equity compensation are taxed differently than other items.
Effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation.
     The limitation associated with using effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation, is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded special items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Also, this measure does not take into account the accounting cost of employee stock options. This limitation is best addressed by using effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation, in combination with effective tax rate from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measures) because effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation, does not reflect items that impact current period operating results
 
and may be lower or lower than GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the effective tax rate from continuing operations, excluding special items and equity compensation, to evaluate the Company's future performance because special items and equity compensation are taxed differently than other items.
     The Company also presents the non-GAAP financial measure "net debt to capital," which is net debt divided by capital (net debt plus total shareholders' equity). "Net debt," also a non-GAAP financial measure, is debt (the most comparable GAAP measure, calculated as current period long-term obligations plus current period short-term borrowings) minus cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale. Management believes that net debt to capital is an important measure to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet. With respect to net debt, cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale are subtracted from the GAAP measure because they could be used to reduce the Company's debt obligations.
Net debt to capital.
     The limitation associated with using net debt is that it subtracts cash and equivalents and short-term investments available for sale and therefore may imply that there is less Company debt than the most comparable GAAP measure indicates. This limitation is best addressed by using net debt in combination with debt because net debt may be significantly lower than the GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet.
     The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "tangible net worth," which is total shareholders' equity (the most comparable GAAP measure) minus goodwill and other intangibles, net. Management believes that tangible net worth is an important measure of liquidity. Goodwill and other intangibles are subtracted from the GAAP measure because they represent "softer" assets of the Company that can be harder to value. The limitation associated with using tangible net worth is that it excludes assets that still have considerable worth to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using tangible net worth in combination with total shareholders' equity. Management believes that investors may find tangible net worth useful to monitor liquidity.
Tangible net worth.
     The Company has forecast fiscal year 2006 earnings per share, excluding special items, impairment charges and other, non-recurring and other items and equity compensation. The Company has forecast long-term earnings per share growth rate, excluding special items, impairment charges and other and non-recurring and other items. See the discussion of special items above under the heading "Operating earnings, excluding special items; operating earnings growth rate, excluding special items; and operating margin, excluding special items" for information regarding the components of the Company's special items classification.
Earnings per share and earnings per share growth rate outlook.
     The Company classifies certain asset impairments related to restructurings in special items, which are included in operating earnings within the consolidated statements of earnings. The Company presents asset impairments and gains and losses not eligible to be classified as special items within "impairment charges and other" within the consolidated statements of earnings. Within this category are significant asset impairments incurred during fiscal 2005 and expected to be incurred in the future due to the Company's global restructuring program and ongoing strategic planning efforts. For further discussion of items classified as impairment charges and other, see the notes to the financial statements contained in the Company's Annual and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
     In addition, the Company has identified items as non-recurring and other items. Non-recurring items include $26.3 million in purchase accounting adjustments recorded during the first two quarters of fiscal 2005 related to the Alaris business acquired in July 2004. These adjustments included an inventory valuation adjustment to "fair value" and the adjusted, higher cost inventory being sold. Non-recurring items also includes a $16.4 million charge taken in the first quarter of fiscal 2005 within the Medical Products and Services segment related to estimated remaining liabilities for outstanding latex litigation. Another non-recurring item is a $7.2 million inventory rationalization of certain health and beauty care products completed during the third quarter of fiscal 2005. The item identified as "other" is primarily a $31.8 million charge taken during the first quarter of fiscal 2006 after the Company discovered that it had inadvertently and erroneously failed to process credits owed to a vendor in prior years. After a thorough
 
review, the Company determined that it had failed to process similar credits for a limited number of additional vendors. These processing failures, specific to a limited area of vendor credits, resulted from system programming, interface and data entry errors relating to these vendor credits which occurred over a period of years. The Company has recorded subsequent adjustments to the original vendor charge that are also identified as "other" items.
     It is difficult to include the impact of special items, impairment charges and other and non-recurring and other items in the Company's earnings per share forecast because the Company cannot predict the amount and timing of such items and the associated charges or gains that will be taken. These items are also excluded because they may mask the underlying results and trends and make it difficult to give investors perspective on underlying business results. Finally, excluding the impact of equity compensation expense allows drawing comparisons between operating results reported prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) and the current period.

 
Exhibit 99.03
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


