FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20070813163414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to Instruction 2 to Item 5.02 of Form 8-K, this Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends and supplements the information reported in Item 5.02(d) to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 1, 2007 (filed May 7, 2007) regarding the election of Gregory B. Kenny to the Board of Directors of Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company"). This Current Report on Form 8-K/A also reports new information under Items 5.02(b), (d) and (e), 7.01, 8.01 and 9.01 of Form 8-K.
 
(b)
On August 7, 2007, Robert L. Gerbig, a director of the Company since 1975, informed the Company that he will not stand for re-election when his term expires at the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders (the "2007 Annual Meeting"). Mr. Gerbig will continue to serve as a director until the 2007 Annual Meeting. Mr. Gerbig has indicated that his reasons for deciding not to stand for re-election are personal and that he has no disagreement with the Company relating to its operations, policies or practices.
(d)
On August 8, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed Gregory B. Kenny to serve on the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. As previously disclosed, Mr. Kenny was elected a director, effective August 1, 2007, by the Board of Directors on May 2, 2007.
On August 8, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company elected Colleen F. Arnold to the Board of Directors to serve until the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting and until her successor is elected and qualified. Ms. Arnold is General Manager, Global Application Services, of International Business Machines Corporation. Ms. Arnold was appointed to serve on the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board.
Ms. Arnold will participate in the standard non-management director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2006 proxy statement, including an initial equity award. Accordingly, on August 8, 2007, Ms. Arnold was granted an option to purchase 3,037 common shares at an exercise price of $69.14, the closing share price on that date. She also was granted 434 restricted share units ("RSUs") that will be settled in common shares. Both awards will vest on August 8, 2008. The option term is seven years.
The Company entered into its standard form of directors' indemnification agreement with Ms. Arnold, in the form previously filed by the Company as Exhibit 10.38 to the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. The agreement generally provides, among other things, that the director will be indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by law and advanced expenses in connection with the defense of any proceedings.
(e)
Long-Term Incentive Cash Program
On August 7, 2007, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company approved the Cardinal Health, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Cash Program (the "Performance Cash Program"), which will operate under and pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "2005 Plan"), as an element of the Company's long-term incentive compensation program.
 
The Performance Cash Program is a new component of the Company's long-term incentive compensation arrangements for key executive employees. Beginning in fiscal 2008, key executives including all of the Company's named executives (other than Mr. Walter) will receive 45% of their long-term incentive compensation awards in the form of stock options, 30% in RSUs and 25% in the form of a three-year grant under the Performance Cash Program. For fiscal 2007, Company named executives received 70% of long-term incentive compensation in the form of stock options and 30% in the form of RSUs. Awards to Mr. Walter in fiscal 2008 will continue to be 70% in stock options and 30% in RSUs, as required by his employment agreement.
Under the Performance Cash Program, a new three-year performance cycle with new performance goals will begin each fiscal year. At the end of the three-year cycle, an executive can receive a cash award of 0-200% of his or her target grant, with a threshold cash award level of 60% if a minimum level of the performance goals and criteria described below is obtained. To facilitate transition to the new program, the Committee designed the proposed award structure under the first three-year cycle to include a two-year and a three-year goal, so that an award relating to 40% of the target grant will be paid at the end of the second year, and an award relating to 60% of the target grant will be paid at the end of the third year.
For the fiscal 2008-2010 performance period, the performance goals established by the Committee relate to cumulative economic profit for the two- and three-year performance periods. Economic profit is defined as net operating profit after tax ("NOPAT") less a capital charge. NOPAT is calculated as: (1) earnings from continuing operations, as disclosed on the Company's statement of earnings, excluding (a) "special items" and "impairment charges and other" line items from the Company's statement of earnings, and (b) other adjustments approved by the Committee, and then (2) adjusted for taxes. Economic profit may be adjusted for the following types of transactions: (1) non-recurring events, such as divestitures, changes in accounting standards or policies, or asset impairments; (2) certain acquisitions; and (3) financing transactions, such as selling accounts receivable. The Committee also established performance criteria of a specified level of average annual return on shareholders' equity ("ROE") over the two- and three-year performance period in order to provide for the deductibility of such payments under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
In the event of a change in control, all participants will become vested in and entitled to a final award calculated based on their individual target grants prorated based on the number of days elapsed in the performance period as of the change in control over the total days in the performance period, or some similar method adopted by the Committee that results in a ratable reduction of the award based on the partial performance period. The amount so calculated will be the minimum amount payable as a final award for each performance period in which the change of control occurs.
The Performance Cash Program administrator may, in its discretion, require that all or any portion of a final award is subject to an obligation of repayment to the Company upon the violation of a non-competition and confidentiality covenant applicable to the participant. The administrator may, in its discretion, also require repayment to the Company of all or any portion of a final award if each of the following conditions is met: (1) the amount of the final award was calculated based upon achieving certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a financial statement restatement; (2) the participant engaged in misconduct that caused or contributed to the need for the restatement; and (3) the amount of the final award would have been lower than the amount actually awarded to the participant had the financial results been properly reported.
The Performance Cash Program terms are filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and the foregoing description is qualified by reference to the full text of the program set forth in the exhibit.
Annual Cash Incentive Awards
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the Committee establishes an overall Company performance criterion and overall Company business objectives for annual cash incentive awards under the Cardinal Health, Inc. Amended and Restated Management Incentive Plan, as amended (the "MIP"), in which the Company's named executives participate. For fiscal 2007 (as with fiscal 2008), the Committee established a specified level of ROE as the overall Company performance criterion in order to provide for the deductibility of such payments under Section 162(m) of the Code and it established
 
a specified level of growth in NOPAT and return on tangible capital ("ROTC") as the overall Company business objectives or goals. NOPAT is calculated as: (1) earnings from continuing operations, as disclosed on the Company's statement of earnings, excluding (a) "special items" and "impairment charges and other" line items from the Company's statement of earnings, and (b) other adjustments approved by the Committee, and then (2) adjusted for taxes. ROTC is calculated as NOPAT divided by net tangible capital. Net tangible capital is calculated as total assets less (total liabilities, goodwill and intangibles, cash and equivalents, short term investments available for sale and assets held for sale and discontinued operations) plus (current portion of long-term obligations and short-term borrowings, liabilities from businesses held for sale and discontinued operations, and long-term obligations). In January 2007, the Committee adjusted the business objectives as a result of the Company's reclassification of substantially all of its Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment as discontinued operations.
Under the terms of the MIP, if the overall Company ROE performance criterion is met, an executive can receive a cash award of 0-200% of his or her annual incentive target, with a threshold cash award level of 60% if a minimum level of both NOPAT and ROTC is obtained. The Committee establishes a schedule of potential cash award percentages based upon achievement of varying NOPAT and ROTC levels. The cash award percentage from the schedule determines the total pool for cash awards under the MIP. The Committee reviews the performance of each segment and the corporate function and individual performance of each named executive and determines the actual amount of the named executive's annual incentive compensation based on these reviews If the Company does not achieve the minimum business objectives with respect to either NOPAT or ROTC, then any cash awards are in the discretion of the Committee. Under the terms of the MIP, the Committee may exercise discretion to reduce the amount of actual awards below the amounts earned under the objective performance criterion and business objectives.
.
On August 7, 2007, the Committee approved cash incentive awards for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007 under the MIP to be paid to the following executives:
 
 
On August 8, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors determined that the 2007 Annual Meeting will be held on Wednesday, November 7, 2007. The record date for the meeting is September 10, 2007. The Board of Directors determined on August 8, 2007 to nominate directors Colleen F. Arnold, R. Kerry Clark, George H. Conrades, Calvin Darden, Philip L. Francis, John F. Finn, Gregory B. Kenny, Richard C. Notebaert, David W. Raisbeck and Robert D. Walter for election as directors at the 2007 Annual Meeting. In addition, the Board approved submitting the following items to a shareholder vote at the 2007 Annual Meeting: an amendment to the Company's Restated Code of Regulations, as amended, to remove a supermajority voting provision; a new non-employee director equity compensation plan; and ratification of the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Company's independent accountants for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2008.
 
On August 7, 2007, the Committee set August 15, 2007 as the grant date for the Company's annual grant of stock options and restricted shares or RSUs to employees, including its named executives. The Committee approved changes to the Company's forms of nonqualified stock option and RSU agreements under the 2005 Plan, including modifying the expiration provisions for termination by reason of death, disability or retirement. The standard form agreements, which will be used for equity grants to the named executives other than Mr. Walter, are filed with this report as Exhibits 10.2 and 10.3. Form agreements for grants to Mr. Walter are filed with this report as Exhibits 10.4 and 10.5.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Article 1. Establishment and Purpose
1.1. . The Cardinal Health, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Cash Program (the "Program") is hereby established effective as of July 1, 2007, under Section 13 of the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "2005 LTIP"). The Program is subject to the terms and provisions of the 2005 LTIP.
Establishment of Program
1.2. . The primary purposes of the Program are to:
Purpose
(a) Achieve the Company's long term financial objectives;
(b) Focus management on key measures that drive financial and management performance; and
(c) Provide compensation opportunities that are externally competitive and internally consistent with the Company's growth objectives and total compensation strategies.
Article 2. Definitions
Whenever used in the Program, capitalized terms that are defined in the 2005 LTIP shall have the meanings attributed to them in the 2005 LTIP. In addition, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below and, when the defined meaning is intended, the term is capitalized:
2.1. "Covered Employee" means any Participant who is, or who is determined by the Committee to be likely to become, a "covered employee" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m).
2.2. "Effective Date" means July 1, 2007.
2.3. "Final Award" means the actual incentive compensation earned under a Cash Award during a Performance Period or partial Performance Period by a Participant, as determined by the Administrator following the end of the Performance Period or partial Performance Period, as applicable.
2.4. "Performance Period" means a period of three fiscal years of the Company. The first Performance Period under the Program shall be the three fiscal year period beginning on the Effective Date, with a new three fiscal year Performance Period beginning on each anniversary thereof until the Program is terminated.
2.5 "Retirement" means Termination of Employment by a Participant (other than by reason of death or Disability and other than in the event of Termination for Cause) from the Company and its Affiliates (a) after attaining age fifty-five (55), and (b) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company and its Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
Article 3. Eligibility and Participation
3.1. . The Administrator shall designate the key executive Employees who are eligible to receive a Cash Award under the Program. Only the Committee may determine the eligibility of Employees who are Covered Employees.
Eligibility
3.2. . Employees who are chosen to participate in the Program for a Performance Period shall be apprised of the performance criteria and related Cash Awards determined for them for the Performance Period, as soon as is practicable after such criteria and Cash Awards are established and shall be apprised of the award level determined by the Committee and Final Award determined for them for the Performance Period, as soon as is practicable after they are determined.
Participation
3.3. . An Employee who becomes eligible after the beginning of the Performance Period may participate in the Program for that Performance Period on a ratable basis provided at least two fiscal years remain in the Performance Period at the date of the Employee's initial eligibility. Such situations may include, but are not limited to (a) new hires; or (b) when an Employee is promoted from a position which did not previously meet the eligibility criteria. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, retains the right to prohibit or allow participation for any of the aforementioned Employees. The performance criteria previously established under the Program shall apply to any Employees who become eligible after the beginning of the Performance Period. If an Employee participates for only a portion of the Performance Period for any reason, his or her Cash Award will be pro-rated based on the number of days he or she performed services during the Performance Period over the total days in the Performance Period, or some similar method adopted by the Committee that results in a ratable reduction of the Cash Award based on the partial Performance Period applicable to the Employee. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3.3 or in the Program to the contrary, the participation in the Program for a Covered Employee who becomes eligible after the beginning of the Performance Period shall comply with the provisions of Code Section 162(m).
Partial Performance Period Participation
3.4. . No Participant or other Employee shall at any time have a right to be selected for participation in the Program for any Performance Period, whether or not he or she previously participated in this or any similar Program.
No Right to Participate
Article 4. Award Determination
4.1. . Within 90 days following the first day of the Performance Period (or, if earlier, before 25% of that period has elapsed), and at a
Performance Criteria and Covered Employees
 
time when the outcome relative to the attainment of the performance criteria is not substantially certain, the Administrator shall select and establish in writing performance criteria for that Performance Period ("Period Qualifying Performance Criteria"), which, if met, will entitle Participants to the payment of the Cash Awards. To ensure compliance with the exception from Code Section 162(m) for qualified performance-based compensation, the performance criteria established for Participants who are Covered Employees shall be based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria. In addition, the Committee shall establish the Cash Award, including a target incentive award, in writing for each Covered Employee for the Performance Period. A level of performance relative to the Period Qualifying Performance Criteria shall be designated as the "Maximum Award" at which the target incentive award shall be earned. Participants who are Covered Employees may receive a Final Award solely if the Period Qualifying Performance Criteria are met. Subject to the requirements of Code Section 162(m) with respect to Covered Employees, at the time the Cash Awards are made and performance criteria are established, the Committee is authorized to determine the manner in which the performance criteria will be calculated or measured to take into account certain factors over which Participants have no or limited control, including, but not limited to, market related changes in inventory value, changes in industry margins, changes in accounting principles, and extraordinary charges to income.
4.2. . The Administrator may, in its discretion, establish one or more business goals ("Period Business Goals") in addition to the Period Qualifying Performance Criteria (collectively, the "Period Performance Criteria") which correspond to various levels of Cash Awards based on percentage multiples of a target incentive award or other levels of attainment of the business goals. In addition, the Administrator shall establish a Cash Award, including a target incentive award, for each Participant who is not a Covered Employee for the Performance Period. A level of performance relative to the Period Performance Criteria shall be designated as the "100% Award Level" at which the target incentive award shall be earned. In addition, ranges of performance above and below the one hundred percent (100%) performance level may be established, with corresponding Cash Award levels ranging from a minimum of 0% to a maximum of 200% of the target incentive award.
Performance Criteria and Participants
4.3. . At the end of each Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the Period Qualifying Performance Criteria were met and, if Period Business Goals were established, shall determine the extent to which the Period Business Goals were met. If the Period Qualifying Performance Criteria for the Performance Period are met, Covered Employees shall be entitled to the payment of the Maximum Award, subject to the Committee's exercise of negative discretion to reduce any Final Award payable to a Covered Employee based on achievement of Period Business Goals or other factors as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. With respect to Participants who are not Covered Employees, the Committee shall determine the award level based upon the extent to which Period Performance Criteria were met, subject to the Committee's exercise of discretion to increase or reduce the award level based on such factors as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Administrator shall determine Final Award for Participants who are not Covered Employees by applying the award level determined by the Committee to the target incentive award established under the Cash Award for that Participant. As set forth in the 2005 LTIP, the maximum amount payable to any single Participant pursuant to the portion of a Cash Award earned with respect to any single fiscal year shall not exceed $7,500,000.
Final Award Determinations
 
4.4. . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall establish performance criteria applicable to the first two fiscal years of the first Performance Period under the Program (from July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2009), in addition to the performance criteria for the entire three fiscal year Performance Period (from July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2010). If the performance criteria applicable to the period from July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2009 are met, then forty percent (40%) of the Cash Award established for the Performance Period shall be payable. Based upon the level of performance achieved, the Cash Award amount may range from a minimum of 0% to a maximum of 80% of the target incentive award. The remaining sixty percent (60%) of the Cash Award, which amount may range from a minimum of 0% to a maximum of 120% of the target incentive award, shall be payable based upon the achievement of the performance criteria for the entire Performance Period. All determinations of performance criteria, Cash Awards and Final Awards applicable to the partial Performance Period from July 1, 2007 through June 30, 2009 shall be made in the same manner and subject to the same restrictions as apply to the entire Performance Period hereunder.
Fiscal Year 2008-2010 Transition
Article 5. Payment of Final Awards
Each Participant's Final Award shall be paid in cash, in one lump sum, subject to applicable tax withholding, on the last regular business day occurring on or before the 15
th
day of the third month after the end of each Performance Period or partial Performance Period, as applicable. If payment is delayed due to an unforeseeable event or other administrative delays, payment shall in no event be made later than the 15
th
day of the third month after the end of the taxable year of the Participant in which the Final Award was earned. The Administrator may permit or provide for deferred payment of any Final Award to a specified date or to a date not less than six (6) months after termination of employment, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Cardinal Health Deferred Compensation Plan and in compliance with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
Article 6. Termination of Employment; Other Vesting and Forfeiture Events
6.1. . In the event a Participant's employment is terminated by reason of Retirement, death or Disability, the Final Award determined in accordance with Article 4 herein shall be reduced to reflect participation prior to termination of employment only. The Final Award, if any, shall be determined by multiplying the Final Award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days of employment in the Performance Period through the date of employment termination, and the denominator of which is the number of days in the Performance Period. In the case of a Participant's Disability, the employment termination shall be deemed to have occurred as of the date that the Administrator determines was the date on which the definition of Disability was satisfied. The Final Award thus determined shall be paid at the same time as Final Awards are paid for active employees following the end of the Performance Period in which employment termination occurs, but in no event shall such amount be paid later than the 15
Termination of Employment Due to Retirement, Death or Disability
th
day of the third month after the end of the taxable year of the Participant in which the Performance Period ended.
6.2. . In the event of a Participant's Termination of Employment before the date a Final Award, if any, is paid for any reason other than Retirement, death, Disability or in connection with a Change of Control, all of the Participant's rights to any Final Award for that Performance Period shall be forfeited unless otherwise determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.
Termination of Employment for Other Reasons
 
6.3. . In the event of a Change of Control, all Participants shall become vested in and entitled to a Final Award calculated based on their individual target incentive awards prorated based on the number of days elapsed in the Performance Period as of the Change in Control over the total days in the Performance Period, or some similar method adopted by the Committee that results in a ratable reduction of the Cash Award based on the partial Performance Period. The amount so calculated shall be the minimum amount payable as a Final Award for each Performance Period in which the Change of Control occurs. The Final Award thus determined shall be paid on the last regular business day occurring on or before the 30
Effect of a Change of Control
th
day following the Change of Control, but in no event shall such amount be paid later than the 15
th
day of the third month after the end of the taxable year of the Participant in which the Change of Control occurred.
6.4. . The Administrator may, in its discretion, require that all or any portion of a Final Award is subject to an obligation of repayment to the Company upon the violation of a non-competition and confidentiality covenant applicable to the Participant. The Administrator may, in its discretion, also require repayment to the Company of all or any portion of a Final Award if the amount of the Final Award was calculated based upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a restatement of the Company's financial statements, the Participant engaged in misconduct that caused or contributed to the need for the restatement of the financial statements, and the amount of the Final Award would have been lower than the amount actually awarded to the Participant had the financial results been properly reported. This Section 6.4 shall not be the Company's exclusive remedy with respect to such matters. This Section 6.4 shall not apply after a Change of Control.
Other Forfeiture Events
Article 7. Nontransferability
No right or interest of any Participant in the Program shall be assignable or transferable, other than by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, or subject to any lien, directly, by operation of law or otherwise, including, but not limited to, by execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge, or bankruptcy.
Article 8. Administration
8.1. . The Program shall be administered in accordance with Section 4 of the 2005 LTIP.
General
8.2. . If the Administrator deems any person entitled to receive any amount under the provisions of the Program to be incapable of receiving or disbursing the same by reason of minority, illness or infirmity, mental incompetence, or incapacity of any kind, the Administrator may, in its sole discretion, (i) apply such amount directly for the comfort, support and maintenance of such person; (ii) reimburse any person for any such support theretofore supplied to the person entitled to receive any such payment; (iii) pay such amount to any person selected by the Administrator to disburse it for such comfort, support and maintenance, including without limitation, any relative who has undertaken, wholly or partially,
Facility of Payment
 
the expense of such person's comfort, care and maintenance, or any institution in whose care or custody the person entitled to the amount may be; or (iv) with respect to any amount due to a minor, deposit such amount to his or her credit in any savings or commercial bank of the Administrator's choice, direct that such distribution be paid to the legal guardian, or if none, to a parent of such person or a responsible adult with whom the minor maintains his or her residence, or to the custodian for such person under the Uniform Gift to Minors Act or Gift to Minors Act, if such payment is permitted by the laws of the state in which the minor resides. Payment pursuant to this Section 8.2 shall fully discharge the Company, the Board, the Committee, and the Program from further liability on account thereof.
Article 9. Amendment or Termination
The Administrator, without notice, at any time and from time to time, may modify or amend, in whole or in part, any or all of the provisions of the Program, or suspend or terminate it entirely, in accordance with the provisions of the 2005 LTIP. No Cash Award may be granted during any period of suspension of the Program or after termination of the Program, and in no event may any new Cash Award be granted after the termination or expiration of the 2005 LTIP under which this Program is established. Any outstanding Cash Award granted before the date of termination of the Program, and the rights of any Participant with respect to such an outstanding Cash Award, will continue in full force and effect notwithstanding the termination of the Program for any reason.
Article 10. Miscellaneous
Titles are provided herein for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Program. Any reference to a section (other than to a section of the Program) shall also include a successor to such section. The Program is governed by the 2005 LTIP and shall be construed in accordance therewith. In the event any term or provision of the Program conflicts with any term or provision of the 2005 LTIP, the terms and provisions of the 2005 LTIP shall control.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Agreement is entered into in Franklin County, Ohio. On [date of grant] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to [employee name] ("Awardee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase [# of shares] common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") for a price of [$X.XX] per share. The Option has been granted under the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and will include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and will be subject to the provisions of this agreement. Capitalized terms used in this agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Option shall vest and become exercisable [CLIFF ALTERNATIVE: on [vesting date]] [INSTALLMENT ALTERNATIVE: in accordance with the following schedule: [vesting schedule] (each, the "Vesting Date" with respect to the portion of the Option scheduled to vest on such date), subject [INSTALLMENT ALTERNATIVE: in each case] to the provisions of this agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued employment with the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Option shall vest in full. This Option shall expire on [date of expiration] (the "Grant Expiration Date").
1. .
Method of Exercise and Payment of Price
(a) . At any time when all or a portion of the Option is exercisable under the Plan and this agreement, some or all of the exercisable portion of the Option may be exercised from time to time by written notice to the Company, or such other method of exercise as may be specified by the Company, including without limitation, exercise by electronic means on the web site of the Company's third-party equity plan administrator, which will:
Method of Exercise
(i) state the number of whole Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised; and
(ii) if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than Awardee, if not already provided, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all applicable laws and regulations.
(b) . The full exercise price for the portion of the Option being exercised shall be paid to the Company as provided below:
Payment of Price
(i) in cash;
(ii) by check or wire transfer (denominated in U.S. Dollars);
(iii) subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired from the Company (whether upon the exercise of an Option or otherwise), have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender (unless this condition is waived by the Administrator), and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to or greater than the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised (it being agreed that the excess of the Fair Market Value over the aggregate exercise price shall be refunded to the Awardee, with any fractional Share being repaid in cash);
(iv) consideration received by the Company under a broker-assisted sale and remittance program acceptable to the Administrator; or
(v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment.
2. . The Option shall be transferable (I) at Awardee's death, by Awardee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by Awardee during Awardee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces or nephews of Awardee, or any other persons sharing Awardee's household (other than tenants or employees) (collectively, "Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of Awardee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which Awardee or such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which Awardee or such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited, except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in subparagraphs II(a), (b) or (c), above, with respect to the original Awardee. The Administrator may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are owned by Awardee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within 10 days of any transfer, Awardee shall notify the Compensation and Benefits department of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this agreement, references to the original Awardee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of a Termination of Employment of Awardee provided in paragraph 3 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Awardee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in paragraph 3. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of Awardee's Termination of Employment with the Cardinal Group for any reason. The conduct prohibited of Awardee in paragraphs 5 and 6 hereof shall continue to be prohibited of Awardee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from Awardee to the same extent as would have been the case of Awardee had the Option not been transferred. Awardee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 29 of the Plan following transfer of the Option.
Transferability
3. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . If a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of death or Disability prior to the vesting in full of the Option, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, then any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death or Disability. The Option may thereafter be exercised by the Awardee, any transferee of Awardee, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee from the date of such death or Disability until the Grant Expiration Date.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death or Disability
(b) . If a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of Retirement prior to the vesting in full of the Option, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, then a Ratable Portion of each installment of the Option that would have vested on each future Vesting Date shall immediately vest and become exercisable. Such Ratable Portion shall, with respect to the applicable installment, be an amount equal to such installment of the Option scheduled to vest on the applicable Vesting Date multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days from the Grant Date through the date of such termination, and the denominator of which shall be
Termination of Employment by Reason of Retirement
 
the number of days from the Grant Date through such Vesting Date. The Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the Grant Expiration Date. If Awardee dies after Retirement, but before the Grant Expiration Date, the Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by any transferee of the Option, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee from and after such death until the Grant Expiration Date. For purposes of this Agreement and this Award under the Plan, "Retirement" shall refer to Age 55 Retirement, which means Termination of Employment by a Participant (other than by reason of death or Disability and other than in the event of Termination for Cause) from the Company and its Affiliates (a) after attaining age fifty-five (55), and (b) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company and its Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
(c) . If a Termination of Employment occurs by any reason other than death, Retirement or Disability (each at least six (6) months from Grant Date), any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will automatically be forfeited. Subject to Section 16(b)(ii) of the Plan, Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) will have 90 days from the date of Termination of Employment or until the Grant Expiration Date, whichever period is shorter, to exercise any portion of the Option that is vested and exercisable on the date of Termination of Employment; provided, however, that if the Termination of Employment was a Termination for Cause, as determined by the Administrator, the Option may be immediately canceled by the Administrator (whether then held by Awardee or any transferee).
Other Termination of Employment
4. . The Option is subject to all restrictions in this agreement and/or in the Plan. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require Awardee or his or her transferee or successor to make any representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters (including Awardee's compliance with the terms of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement or any employment or severance agreement between the Cardinal Group and Awardee) reasonably requested by the Company. The Option shall not be exercisable if such exercise would involve a violation of any Applicable Law.
Restrictions on Exercise
5. . As used in this agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the Cardinal Group any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Cardinal Group; violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used in this agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Awardee's Termination of Employment, accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
 
Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur.
6. . For so long as Awardee continues as an employee with the Cardinal Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in paragraph 5 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay the Company an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by Awardee or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the market value of the Shares underlying the Option on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Shares underlying the Option), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), less $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this paragraph 6 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this paragraph 6 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This paragraph 6 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this paragraph 6 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement, the provisions of this agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
 
7. . By accepting this Option, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this agreement.
Right of Set-Off
8. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the exercise of the Option, regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Option. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the exercise of the Option. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Option or the exercise of the Option to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
(b) . Concurrently with the payment of the exercise price pursuant to paragraph 1 hereof, Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation") in a manner acceptable to the Company. Any manner provided for in subparagraph 1(b) hereof shall be deemed an acceptable manner to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation unless otherwise determined by the Company.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
9. . If Awardee is classified as an "officer" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on the Grant Date, then, as a condition to receipt of the Option, Awardee hereby agrees to hold his or her After-Tax Net Profit in Shares until the first anniversary of the exercise of all or a portion of the Option (or, if earlier, the date of Awardee's Termination of Employment). "After-Tax Net Profit" means the total dollar value of the Shares that Awardee elects to exercise under this Option at the time of exercise, minus the total of (i) the exercise price to purchase these Shares, and (ii) the amount of all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other tax and other similar fees that are withheld in connection with the exercise.
Holding Period Requirement
10. . This agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the Option and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
 
Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this agreement.
11. .The parties agree that the interpretation of this agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Administrator
12. . The Option grant evidenced by this agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
13. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Option grant under and participation in the Plan or future options that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of option grants and the execution of option agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
14. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
Cardinal Health, Inc.
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, Ohio 43017
Attention: Chief Legal Officer
Facsimile: (614) 757-2797
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he or she is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this agreement and the Option granted to him or her under this agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this agreement, including the provisions in the agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in paragraphs 5 and 6 above; and (c) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
This Agreement is entered into in Franklin County, Ohio. On [grant date] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to [employee name] ("Awardee") [# of shares] Restricted Share Units (the "Restricted Share Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. The Restricted Share Units have been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Share Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1. . Subject to the provisions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Restricted Share Units shall vest [CLIFF VESTING ALTERNATIVE: on [vesting date] (the "Vesting Date")] [INSTALLMENT VESTING ALTERNATIVE: in accordance with the following schedule: [vesting schedule] (each such vesting date, the "Vesting Date" with respect to the Restricted Share Units scheduled to vest on such date)]. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full.
Vesting
2. . The Restricted Share Units shall not be transferable.
Transferability
3. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . Except as set forth below, if a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting of a Restricted Share Unit, such Restricted Share Unit shall be forfeited by Awardee.
General
(b) . If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Share Units by reason of Awardee's death or Disability, but at least 6 months from the Grant Date, then any unvested Restricted Share Units shall immediately vest in full and shall not be forfeited.
Death and Disability
(c) . If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Share Units by reason of the Awardee's Retirement, but at least 6 months from the Grant Date, then a Ratable Portion of each installment of the Restricted Share Units that would have vested on each future Vesting Date shall immediately vest and not be forfeited. Such Ratable Portion shall, with respect to the applicable installment, be an amount equal to such installment of the Restricted Share Units scheduled to vest on the applicable Vesting Date multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days from the Grant Date through the date of such termination, and the denominator of which shall be the number of days from the Grant Date through such Vesting Date. For purposes of this Agreement and this Award under the Plan, "Retirement" shall refer to Age 55 Retirement, which means Termination of Employment by a Participant (other than by reason of death or Disability and other than in the event of Termination for Cause) from the Company and its Affiliates (a) after attaining age fifty-five (55), and (b) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company and its Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service.
Retirement
4. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group") any confidential information, trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Cardinal Group; violation of Company policies, including conduct which would constitute a breach of any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Termination of Employment, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur.
5. . For so long as Awardee continues as an Employee with the Cardinal Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) any Restricted Share Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Share Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Share Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and the time of Awardee's engaging in Competitor Triggering Conduct.
Awardee may be released from his or her obligations under this Paragraph 5 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 5 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's
 
acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provision of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Share Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Share Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Share Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6. . Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement, and unless Awardee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units, on the date of vesting of any Restricted Share Unit, Awardee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 11) the Shares represented by such Restricted Share Unit; provided, however, that, subject to the next sentence, in the event that such Restricted Share Units vest prior to the applicable Vesting Date as a result of the death, Disability or Retirement of Awardee or as a result of a Change of Control, Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date of such vesting. Notwithstanding the proviso of the preceding sentence, if Restricted Share Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Change of Control under circumstances where such occurrence would not qualify as a permissible date of distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, and where Code Section 409A applies to such distribution, such proviso shall not apply and Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that would have applied absent such proviso. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Payment
7. . Awardee shall not receive cash dividends on the Restricted Share Units but instead shall, with respect to each Restricted Share Unit, receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Share represented by such unit. Cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to a Vesting Date shall be accrued until the Vesting Date and paid thereon (subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying Restricted Share Units award).
Dividend Equivalents
8. . If Awardee is classified as an "officer" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on the Grant Date, then, as a condition to receipt of the Restricted Share Units, Awardee hereby agrees to hold, until the first anniversary of the applicable Vesting Date (or, if earlier, the date of Awardee's Termination of Employment), the Shares issued pursuant to settlement of such units (less any portion thereof withheld in order to satisfy all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other tax).
Holding Period Requirement
 
9. . By accepting these Restricted Share Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
10. . Awardee shall have no rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Share Units, including, without limitation, Awardee shall not have the right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units.
No Shareholder Rights
11. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Restricted Share Units (including taxes owed with respect to the cash payments described in Paragraph 7 hereof), regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Share Units. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Share Units or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable pursuant to the Restricted Share Units. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Restricted Share Units to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
(b) . Prior to any event in connection with the Restricted Share Units (e.g., vesting or settlement) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. Unless Awardee elects to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by an alternative means that is then permitted by the Company, Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement constitutes Awardee's instruction and authorization to the Company to withhold on Awardee's behalf the number of Shares from those Shares issuable to Awardee at the time when the Restricted Share Units become vested and payable as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation. In the case of any amounts withheld for taxes pursuant to this provision in the form of Shares, the amount withheld shall not exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
12. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Share Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
 
further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
13. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "Designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its Designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its Designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its Designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its Designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Administrator
14. . The Restricted Share Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
15. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Share Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Share Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means or to request Awardee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of restricted share unit grants and the execution of restricted share unit agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
16. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
 
Cardinal Health, Inc.
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, Ohio 43017
Attention: Chief Legal Officer
Facsimile: (614) 757-2797
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders, and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan; (b) accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Share Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in paragraphs 4 and 5 above; (c) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement; (d) represents and warrants to the Company that he or she is purchasing the Restricted Share Units for his or her own account, for investment, and not with a view to or any present intention of selling or distributing the Restricted Share Units either now or at any specific or determinable future time or period or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of any predetermined or reasonably foreseeable event; and (e) agrees that no transfer of the Shares delivered in respect of the Restricted Share Units shall be made unless the Shares have been duly registered under all applicable Federal and state securities laws pursuant to a then-effective registration which contemplates the proposed transfer or unless the Company has received a written opinion of, or satisfactory to, its legal counsel that the proposed transfer is exempt from such registration.
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
On [date of grant] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc., an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to Robert D. Walter ("Awardee"), an option (the "Option") to purchase [# of shares] common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") for a price of [$X.XX] per share. The Option has been granted under the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and will include and be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and will be subject to the provisions of this agreement. Capitalized terms used in this agreement which are not specifically defined will have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Option shall vest and become exercisable in accordance with the following schedule: three equal installments on each of the first three anniversaries of the Grant Date (each, the "Vesting Date" with respect to the portion of the Option scheduled to vest on such date), subject in each case to the provisions of this agreement, including those relating to the Awardee's continued employment with the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Option shall vest in full. This Option shall expire on [date of expiration] (the "Grant Expiration Date").
1. .
Method of Exercise and Payment of Price
(a) . At any time when all or a portion of the Option is exercisable under the Plan and this agreement, some or all of the exercisable portion of the Option may be exercised from time to time by written notice to the Company, or such other method of exercise as may be specified by the Company, including without limitation, exercise by electronic means on the web site of the Company's third-party equity plan administrator, which will:
Method of Exercise
(i) state the number of whole Shares with respect to which the Option is being exercised; and
(ii) if the Option is being exercised by anyone other than Awardee, if not already provided, be accompanied by proof satisfactory to counsel for the Company of the right of such person or persons to exercise the Option under the Plan and all applicable laws and regulations.
(b) . The full exercise price for the portion of the Option being exercised shall be paid to the Company as provided below:
Payment of Price
(i) in cash;
(ii) by check or wire transfer (denominated in U.S. Dollars);
(iii) subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired from the Company (whether upon the exercise of an Option or otherwise), have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender (unless this condition is waived by the Administrator), and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to or greater than the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised (it being agreed that the excess of the Fair Market Value over the aggregate exercise price shall be refunded to the Awardee, with any fractional Share being repaid in cash);
(iv) consideration received by the Company under a broker-assisted sale and remittance program acceptable to the Administrator; or
(v) any combination of the foregoing methods of payment.
2. . The Option shall be transferable (I) at Awardee's death, by Awardee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (II) by Awardee during Awardee's lifetime, without payment of consideration, to (a) the spouse, former spouse, parents, stepparents, grandparents, parents-in-law, siblings, siblings-in-law, children, stepchildren, children-in-law, grandchildren, nieces or nephews of Awardee, or any other persons sharing Awardee's household (other than tenants or employees) (collectively, "Family Members"), (b) a trust or trusts for the primary benefit of Awardee or such Family Members, (c) a foundation in which Awardee or such Family Members control the management of assets, or (d) a partnership in which Awardee or such Family Members are the majority or controlling partners; provided, however, that subsequent transfers of the transferred Option shall be prohibited, except (X) if the transferee is an individual, at the transferee's death by the transferee by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution, and (Y) without payment of consideration to the individuals or entities listed in subparagraphs II(a), (b) or (c), above, with respect to the original Awardee. The Administrator may, in its discretion, permit transfers to other persons and entities as permitted by the Plan. Neither a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights nor a transfer to an entity in which more than 50% of the voting interests are owned by Awardee or Family Members in exchange for an interest in that entity shall be considered to be a transfer for consideration. Within 10 days of any transfer, Awardee shall notify the Compensation and Benefits department of the Company in writing of the transfer. Following transfer, the Option shall continue to be subject to the same terms and conditions as were applicable immediately prior to transfer and, except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this agreement, references to the original Awardee shall be deemed to refer to the transferee. The events of a Termination of Employment of Awardee provided in paragraph 3 hereof shall continue to be applied with respect to the original Awardee, following which the Option shall be exercisable by the transferee only to the extent, and for the periods, specified in paragraph 3. The Company shall have no obligation to notify any transferee of Awardee's Termination of Employment with the Cardinal Group for any reason. The conduct prohibited of Awardee in paragraphs 5 and 6 hereof shall continue to be prohibited of Awardee following transfer to the same extent as immediately prior to transfer and the Option (or its economic value, as applicable) shall be subject to forfeiture by the transferee and recoupment from Awardee to the same extent as would have been the case of Awardee had the Option not been transferred. Awardee shall remain subject to the recoupment provisions of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement and tax withholding provisions of Section 29 of the Plan following transfer of the Option.
Transferability
3. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . If a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of death or Disability prior to the vesting in full of the Option, then any unvested portion of the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death or Disability. The Option may thereafter be exercised by the Awardee, any transferee of Awardee, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee from the date of such death or Disability until the Grant Expiration Date.
Termination of Employment by Reason of Death or Disability
(b) . If a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of Retirement prior to the vesting in full of the Option, but at least six (6) months from the Grant Date, then a Ratable Portion of each installment of the Option that would have vested on each future Vesting Date shall immediately vest and become exercisable. Such Ratable Portion shall, with respect to the applicable installment, be an amount equal to such installment of the Option scheduled to vest on the applicable Vesting Date multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days from the Grant Date through the date of such termination, and the denominator of which shall be the number of days from the Grant Date through such Vesting Date. For purposes of this Agreement and
Termination of Employment by Reason of Retirement
 
this Award under the Plan, "Retirement" shall refer to Age 55 Retirement, which means Termination of Employment by a Participant (other than by reason of death or Disability and other than in the event of Termination for Cause) from the Company and its Affiliates (a) after attaining age fifty-five (55), and (b) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company and its Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service. In addition, to the extent any portion of the Option remains unvested after application of the foregoing provisions, then if a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of Retirement, any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will, at the Company's election, either vest immediately or continue to vest in accordance with the original vesting schedule, provided that Awardee complies with his obligation to perform consulting services under the Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between the Company and Awardee, dated April 17, 2006, as subsequently amended (the "Employment Agreement"). For purposes of this paragraph 3, Termination of Employment shall mean the termination of both the Employment Period and the Consulting Period, as such terms are defined in the Employment Agreement. The Option, to the extent vested, may be exercised by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the Grant Expiration Date. If Awardee dies after Retirement, but before the Option is fully vested, the Option shall vest upon and become exercisable in full from and after such death and may be exercised by any transferee of the Option, if applicable, or by the legal representative of the estate or by the legatee of Awardee under the will of Awardee from and after such death until the Grant Expiration Date.
(c) . Upon a Termination of Employment by the Company without Cause or by the Awardee with Good Reason, as such terms are defined in the Employment Agreement, any unexercised portion of the Option which has not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will become fully vested as of such date, and, in any event once vested, may be exercised by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the Grant Expiration Date. Upon a Termination of Employment for Cause, as such term is defined in the Employment Agreement, any portion of the Option which has not vested on such date will automatically be forfeited, and any portion of the Option which has vested on such date may be exercised by Awardee (or any transferee, if applicable) until the Grant Expiration Date.
Other Termination of Employment
4. . The Option is subject to all restrictions in this agreement and/or in the Plan. As a condition of any exercise of the Option, the Company may require Awardee or his or her transferee or successor to make any representation and warranty to comply with any applicable law or regulation or to confirm any factual matters (including Awardee's compliance with the terms of paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement or any employment or severance agreement between the Cardinal Group and Awardee) reasonably requested by the Company. The Option shall not be exercisable if such exercise would involve a violation of any Applicable Law.
Restrictions on Exercise
5. . As used in this agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall mean engaging in any conduct described in Section 9(b), 9(c), 9(f) or 9(g) of the Employment Agreement. As used herein, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall mean engaging in any conduct described in Section 9(d) or 9(e) of the Employment Agreement.
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
6. . For so long as Awardee continues as an employee with the Cardinal Group and for two years following a Termination of Employment (without regard to the Consulting Period as defined in the Employment Agreement) regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence, then, as to such portion of the Option that is unvested or that became vested within no more than two years prior to the date Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
 
(a) the Option (or any part thereof that has not been exercised) shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and shall cease to be exercisable at any time; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay the Company an amount equal to the gross option gain realized or obtained by Awardee or any transferee resulting from the exercise of such Option, measured at the date of exercise (i.e., the difference between the market value of the Shares underlying the Option on the exercise date and the exercise price paid for such Shares underlying the Option), with respect to any portion of the Option that has already been exercised at any time within two years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), less $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and engagement in Competitor Triggering Conduct. Awardee may be released from Awardee's obligations under this paragraph 6 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this paragraph 6 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This paragraph 6 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this paragraph 6 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provisions of this agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement, the provisions of this agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void; provided, further, however, that the provisions of the Employment Agreement and paragraph 13 of this agreement shall take precedence over this paragraph 6(b). Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the restrictions contained in this agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Option, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Option and execution of this agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Option to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
7. . By accepting this Option, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this agreement.
Right of Set-Off
 
8. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the exercise of the Option, regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Option. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the exercise of the Option. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Option or the exercise of the Option to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
(b) . Concurrently with the payment of the exercise price pursuant to paragraph 1 hereof, Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation") in a manner acceptable to the Company. Any manner provided for in subparagraph 1(b) hereof shall be deemed an acceptable manner to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation unless otherwise determined by the Company.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
9. . If Awardee is classified as an "officer" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on the Grant Date, then, as a condition to receipt of the Option, Awardee hereby agrees to hold his or her After-Tax Net Profit in Shares until the first anniversary of the exercise of all or a portion of the Option (or, if earlier, the date of Awardee's Termination of Employment). "After-Tax Net Profit" means the total dollar value of the Shares that Awardee elects to exercise under this Option at the time of exercise, minus the total of (i) the exercise price to purchase these Shares, and (ii) the amount of all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other tax and other similar fees that are withheld in connection with the exercise.
Holding Period Requirement
10. . This Agreement is entered into in Franklin County, Ohio and shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in paragraphs 5 and 6 of this agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this agreement.
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this agreement and that the Option and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
 
11. .The parties agree that the interpretation of this agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its designee relating to this agreement, including without limitation whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious; provided, however, that to the extent that any provision in this paragraph 11 is inconsistent in any manner with the terms of Section 9(i) of the Employment Agreement, the provisions of the Employment Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void.
Action by the Administrator
12. . The Option grant evidenced by this agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
13. . Awardee acknowledges that the Option granted hereunder, in tandem with the grant as of the date hereof by the Company to the Awardee of restricted share units in respect of [# of RSUs] Common Shares, satisfy in full the Company's obligation under Section 3(b)(iii)(B) of the Employment Agreement with respect to incentive awards required to be made not later than September 30, 2007. Sections 3 and 5 of the Employment Agreement set forth certain rules in respect of the treatment of stock options upon the Awardee's termination of employment, and the Employment Agreement sets forth certain rules in respect of the application of restrictive covenants set forth in stock option agreements to the Awardee. The parties acknowledge that such rules set forth in the Employment Agreement apply to the Option granted hereunder, and further acknowledge that in the event of any conflict between such rules and the terms of this agreement, such rules shall govern.
Employment Agreement
14. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Option grant under and participation in the Plan or future options that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of option grants and the execution of option agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
15. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
 
Cardinal Health, Inc.
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, Ohio 43017
Attention: Chief Legal Officer
Facsimile: (614) 757-2797
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges receiving a copy of the Plan, which has either been previously delivered or is provided with this agreement, and represents that he is familiar with and understands all provisions of the Plan and this agreement; (b) voluntarily and knowingly accepts this agreement and the Option granted to him under this agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this agreement, including the provisions in the agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in paragraphs 5 and 6 above; and (c) represents that he understands that the acceptance of this agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he manually signed the agreement. Awardee further acknowledges receiving a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan.
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
On [grant date] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to Robert D. Walter ("Awardee") [# of shares] Restricted Share Units (the "Restricted Share Units" or "Award"), representing an unfunded unsecured promise of the Company to deliver common shares, without par value, of the Company (the "Shares") to Awardee as set forth herein. The Restricted Share Units have been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Share Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1. . Subject to the provisions set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Restricted Share Units shall vest in accordance with the following schedule: 33.33% of the Restricted Share Units shall vest on the first anniversary of the Grant Date, an additional 33.33% of the Restricted Share Units shall vest on the second anniversary of the Grant Date, and the final 33.34% of the Restricted Share Units shall vest on the third anniversary of the Grant Date (each such vesting date, the "Vesting Date" with respect to the Restricted Share Units scheduled to vest on such date). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full.
Vesting
2. . The Restricted Share Units shall not be transferable.
Transferability
3. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . Except as set forth below, if a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting of a Restricted Share Unit, such Restricted Share Unit shall be forfeited by Awardee.
General
(b) . If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Share Units by reason of Awardee's death or Disability, then any unvested Restricted Share Units shall immediately vest in full and shall not be forfeited.
Death and Disability
(c) . If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting in full of the Restricted Share Units by reason of the Awardee's Retirement, but at least 6 months from the Grant Date, then a Ratable Portion of each installment of the Restricted Share Units that would have vested on each future Vesting Date shall immediately vest and become exercisable. Such Ratable Portion shall, with respect to the applicable installment, be an amount equal to such installment of the Restricted Share Units scheduled to vest on the applicable Vesting Date multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days from the Grant Date through the date of such termination, and the denominator of which shall be the number of days from the Grant Date through such Vesting Date. For purposes of this Agreement and this Award under the Plan, "Retirement" shall refer to Age 55 Retirement, which means Termination of Employment by a Participant (other than by reason of death or Disability and other than in the event of Termination for Cause) from the Company and its Affiliates (a) after attaining age fifty-five (55), and (b) having at least ten (10) years of continuous service with the Company and its Affiliates, including service with an Affiliate of the Company prior to the time that such Affiliate became an Affiliate of the Company. For purposes of the age and/or service requirement, the Administrator may, in its discretion, credit a Participant with additional age and/or years of service. In addition, to the extent any Restricted Share Units remain unvested after application of the foregoing provisions, then if a Termination of Employment occurs by reason of Retirement, any Restricted Share Units which have not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will, at the Company's election, either vest
Retirement
immediately or continue to vest in accordance with the original vesting schedule, provided that Awardee complies with his obligation to perform consulting services under the Second Amended and Restated Employment Agreement between the Company and Awardee, dated April 17, 2006, as subsequently amended (the "Employment Agreement"). For purposes of this paragraph 3, Termination of Employment shall mean the termination of both the Employment Period and the Consulting Period, as such terms are defined in the Employment Agreement. If Awardee dies after Retirement, but before the Restricted Share Units are fully vested, then any unvested Restricted Share Units shall immediately vest in full and shall not be forfeited.
(d) . Upon a Termination of Employment by the Company without Cause or by the Awardee with Good Reason, as such terms are defined in the Employment Agreement, any Restricted Share Units which have not vested on such date of Termination of Employment will become fully vested as of such date.
Other Termination of Employment
4. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall mean engaging in any conduct described in Section 9(b), 9(c), 9(f) or 9(g) of the Employment Agreement. As used herein, "" shall mean engaging in any conduct described in Section 9(d) or 9(e) of the Employment Agreement.
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
Competitor Triggering Conduct
5. . For so long as Awardee continues as an Employee with the Cardinal Group and for two years following Termination of Employment (without regard to the Consulting Period as defined in the Employment Agreement) regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) any Restricted Share Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Share Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Share Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within two years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and the time of Awardee's engaging in Competitor Triggering Conduct.
Awardee may be released from his or her obligations under this Paragraph 5 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 5 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and Awardee's continuing obligations
 
contained herein. No provision of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the Certificates of Compliance with Company Policies and/or the Certificates of Compliance with Company Business Ethics Policies; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void; provided, further, however, that the provisions of the Employment Agreement and Paragraph 14 of this Agreement shall take precedence over this Paragraph 5(b). Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Share Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Share Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Share Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6. . Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement, and unless Awardee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units, on the date of vesting of any Restricted Share Unit, Awardee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 11) the Shares represented by such Restricted Share Unit; provided, however, that, subject to the next sentence, in the event that such Restricted Share Units vest prior to the applicable Vesting Date as a result of the death, Disability or Retirement of Awardee or as a result of a Change of Control, Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date of such vesting. Notwithstanding the proviso of the preceding sentence, if Restricted Share Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Change of Control under circumstances where such occurrence would not qualify as a permissible date of distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, and where Code Section 409A applies to such distribution, such proviso shall not apply and Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that would have applied absent such proviso. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Payment
7. . Awardee shall not receive cash dividends on the Restricted Share Units but instead shall, with respect to each Restricted Share Unit, receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the settlement of such unit pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Share represented by such unit. Cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to a Vesting Date shall be accrued until the Vesting Date and paid thereon (subject to the same vesting requirements as the underlying Restricted Share Units award).
Dividend Equivalents
8. . If Awardee is classified as an "officer" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on the Grant Date, then, as a condition to receipt of the Restricted Share Units, Awardee hereby agrees to hold, until the first anniversary of the applicable Vesting Date (or, if earlier, the date of Awardee's Termination of Employment), the Shares issued pursuant to settlement of such units (less any portion thereof withheld in order to satisfy all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other tax).
Holding Period Requirement
 
9. . By accepting these Restricted Share Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
10. . Awardee shall have no rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Share Units, including, without limitation, Awardee shall not have the right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units.
No Shareholder Rights
11. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Restricted Share Units (including taxes owed with respect to the cash payments described in Paragraph 7 hereof), regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Share Units. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Share Units or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable pursuant to the Restricted Share Units. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Restricted Share Units to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
(b) . Prior to any event in connection with the Restricted Share Units (e.g., vesting or settlement) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. Unless Awardee elects to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by an alternative means that is then permitted by the Company, Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement constitutes Awardee's instruction and authorization to the Company to withhold on Awardee's behalf the number of Shares from those Shares issuable to Awardee at the time when the Restricted Share Units become vested and payable as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation. In the case of any amounts withheld for taxes pursuant to this provision in the form of Shares, the amount withheld shall not exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
12. . This Agreement is entered into in Franklin County, Ohio and shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Share Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
 
contained in this Agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
13. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "Designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its Designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its Designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its Designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its Designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious; provided, however, that to the extent that any provisions in this Paragraph 13 are inconsistent in any manner with the terms of Section 9(i) of the Employment Agreement, the provisions of the Employment Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void.
Action by the Administrator
14. . Awardee acknowledges that the Restricted Share Units granted hereunder, in tandem with the grant as of the date hereof by the Company to the Awardee of an option in respect of [# of shares] Common Shares, satisfy in full the Company's obligation under Section 3(b)(iii)(B) of the Employment Agreement with respect to incentive awards required to be made not later than September 30, 2007. Sections 3 and 5 of the Employment Agreement set forth certain rules in respect of the treatment of restricted share units upon the Awardee's termination of employment, and the Employment Agreement sets forth certain rules in respect of the application of restrictive covenants set forth in restricted share unit agreements to the Awardee. The parties acknowledge that such rules set forth in the Employment Agreement apply to the Restricted Share Units granted hereunder, and further acknowledge that in the event of any conflict between such rules and the terms of this Agreement, such rules shall govern.
Employment Agreement
15. . The Restricted Share Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
16. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Share Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Share Units that may be granted under the Plan by
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
 
electronic means or to request Awardee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of restricted share unit grants and the execution of restricted share unit agreements through electronic signature.
17. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
Cardinal Health, Inc.
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, Ohio 43017
Attention: Chief Legal Officer
Facsimile: (614) 757-2797
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges that he has received a copy of the Plan, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders, and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan; (b) accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Share Units granted to him under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in paragraphs 4 and 5 above; (c) represents that he understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he manually signed the Agreement; (d) represents and warrants to the Company that he is purchasing the Restricted Share Units for his own account, for investment, and not with a view to or any present intention of selling or distributing the Restricted Share Units either now or at any specific or determinable future time or period or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of any predetermined or reasonably foreseeable event; and (e) agrees that no transfer of the Shares delivered in respect of the Restricted Share Units shall be made unless the Shares have been duly registered under all applicable Federal and state securities laws pursuant to a then-effective registration which contemplates the proposed transfer or unless the Company has received a written opinion of, or satisfactory to, its legal counsel that the proposed transfer is exempt from such registration.
 
 


