FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20070423162121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On April 23, 2007, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing it had reserved $600 million in connection with the Cardinal Health federal securities actions described in Item 8.01 below. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.01 to this report.
 
As previously reported, since July 2, 2004, 10 purported class action complaints have been filed by purported purchasers of the Company's securities against the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors, asserting claims under the federal securities laws (collectively referred to as the "Cardinal Health federal securities actions"). To date, all of these actions have been filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. The Cardinal Health federal securities actions are more fully described under the heading "Shareholder/ERISA Litigation against Cardinal Health" in Note 8 of "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2006 (the "December 31, 2006 Form 10-Q").
Settlement discussions have been recently occurring with counsel for the plaintiffs regarding a possible resolution of the Cardinal Health federal securities actions. As a result of these discussions, the Company has determined that it is necessary to record a reserve of $600 million for the period ended March 31, 2007 in respect of the Cardinal Health federal securities actions. The reserve represents the Company's current estimate to reach a mediated settlement of the Cardinal Health federal securities action. The defendants in the Cardinal Health federal securities actions continue to deny any violations of law, and to the extent that any settlement is reached, such a settlement would be solely to eliminate the uncertainties, burden and expense of further protracted litigation. In addition, such a settlement would require notice to the class of plaintiffs in the Cardinal Health federal securities actions and would be subject to court approval. Unless and until the Cardinal Health federal securities actions are resolved through settlement or otherwise, there can be no assurance that the amount reserved by the Company for this matter will be sufficient and that a larger amount will not be required or that the Company's efforts to resolve Cardinal Health federal securities actions will be successful, and the Company cannot predict the timing or outcome of these matters or the terms of any such resolution.
The reserve recorded does not relate to any other legal proceedings to which the Company is a party discussed in Note 8 of "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" included in the December 31, 2006 Form 10-Q, including, but not limited to, the "Cardinal Health ERISA actions" discussed under the heading "Shareholder/ERISA Litigation against Cardinal Health" (which is the same heading under which the Cardinal Health federal securities actions are discussed) and the matters discussed under the headings "Derivative Actions" and "SEC Investigation and U.S. Attorney Inquiry."
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, OH 43017
www.cardinalhealth.com
Contacts:
 
 Cardinal Health announced today that it has established a $600-million reserve associated with a pending class-action securities lawsuit. The reserve represents the company's current estimate to reach a mediated settlement with counsel for the class.
DUBLIN, Ohio, April 23, 2007
The decision to establish the reserve will result in an after-tax charge to third-quarter earnings of approximately $384 million. The company said negotiations are ongoing and it can make no assurance that the matter will be resolved through mediation.
The class-action litigation relates to Cardinal Health's financial reporting and disclosures between fiscal 2000 and 2004. (A detailed description of the securities litigation is included in Cardinal Health's fiscal 2007 second-quarter Form 10-Q.)
The company recorded the litigation reserve as a Special Item, which it does not include when determining Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations. The company provides guidance based on Non-GAAP earnings per share.
Cardinal Health said the reserve is unrelated to the agreement-in-principle it previously reached with the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The company's third quarter ended March 31 and it will report financial results for the period on April 26.
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is an $80 billion, global company serving the health-care industry with products and services that help hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies reduce costs, improve safety, productivity and profitability, and deliver better care to patients. With a focus on making supply chains more efficient, reducing hospital-acquired infections and breaking the cycle of harmful medication errors, Cardinal Health develops market-leading technologies, including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMined data mining software and the CareFusion patient identification system. The
Cardinal Health reserves $600 million toward resolution of class-action securities lawsuit
Page 2
company also manufactures medical and surgical products and is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies worldwide. Ranked No. 19 on the Fortune 500 and No. 1 in its sector on Fortune's ranking of Most Admired firms, Cardinal Health employs more than 40,000 people on five continents. More information about the company may be found at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings, or settlement discussions with regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in any action against the company; and uncertainties related to completing a settlement of the class-action securities litigation or, if completed, obtaining court approval of the settlement, uncertainties regarding whether the amount reserved associated with the class-action securities litigation will be sufficient, and uncertainties regarding the timing or final terms of any settlement. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.


