FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20070131083537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On January 25, 2007, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") and Phoenix Charter LLC ("Phoenix"), an affiliate of The Blackstone Group ("Blackstone"), entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the "Purchase Agreement"), pursuant to which Phoenix will acquire the Company's Pharmaceutical Technologies and Services segment, other than the Martindale and Beckloff businesses (the segment, excluding the Martindale and Beckloff businesses, the "Business"), for $3,305,000,000 in cash (the "Sale"). The purchase price is subject to possible upward or downward adjustment based on certain provisions in the Purchase Agreement relating to the working capital, indebtedness and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of the Business.
The completion of the Sale is subject to customary closing conditions, including antitrust clearance, no injunctions or illegality, and the absence of a material adverse effect on the Business or Phoenix's ability to timely consummate the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement. The Sale is not subject to any financing condition, and is expected to close early in the Company's fiscal fourth quarter.
In connection with the execution of the Purchase Agreement, Blackstone Capital Partners V L.P., an affiliate of Blackstone, issued a limited guaranty in favor of the Company to support Phoenix's obligations under the Purchase Agreement. The maximum aggregate liability of Phoenix under the Purchase Agreement and Blackstone Capital Partners V L.P. under the limited guaranty is limited to $65,000,000 in the aggregate.
On January 25, 2007, the Company and Blackstone jointly announced the execution of the Purchase Agreement. A copy of the press release was furnished as Exhibit 99.02 to a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by the Company on January 25, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


