FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20070626082818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On June 26, 2007, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it has scheduled a conference call for June 27, 2007 at 8:30 a.m. EDT to reaffirm fiscal 2008 non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations guidance of $3.95 to $4.15 and provide segment-level detail to its long-term financial goals and fiscal 2008 targets. The Company will also announce that it expects fiscal 2007 non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations will be in the top end of the previously announced range of $3.32 to $3.40. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.01 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 Cardinal Health has scheduled a conference call for June 27 at 8:30 a.m. EDT to reaffirm fiscal 2008 non-GAAP diluted earnings-per-share (EPS) guidance of $3.95 to $4.15 and provide segment-level detail to its long-term financial goals and fiscal 2008 targets. The company will also announce that it expects fiscal 2007 non-GAAP diluted EPS will be in the top end of the previously announced range of $3.32 to $3.40.
DUBLIN, Ohio, June 26, 2007
To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investor page at www.cardinalhealth.com. The conference call may also be accessed by calling 617-213-8852, conference passcode 34437629. An audio replay will be available until 6 p.m. EDT on June 29 at 617-801-6888, passcode 72775436. A transcript and audio replay will also be available at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is an $80 billion, global company serving the health-care industry with products and services that help hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies reduce costs, improve safety, productivity and profitability, and deliver better care to patients. With a focus on making supply chains more efficient, reducing hospital-acquired infections and breaking the cycle of harmful medication errors, Cardinal Health develops market-leading technologies, including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMined data mining surveillance and the CareFusion patient identification system. The company also manufactures medical and surgical products and is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies worldwide. Ranked No. 19 on the Fortune 500 and No. 1 in its sector on Fortune's ranking of Most Admired firms, Cardinal Health employs more than 40,000 people on five continents. More information about the company may be found at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The Company presents certain forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations is earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items and impairment charges and other, both net of tax, divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure is diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. The Company is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure because the Company cannot reliably forecast special items and impairment charges and other, which are difficult to predict and estimate. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact the Company's future financial results.
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Except for historical information, all other information in this news release consists of forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: successful integration of Cardinal Health and VIASYS Healthcare; the ability to achieve synergies from the VIASYS Healthcare transaction; competitive pressures in its various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal and administrative proceedings, or settlement discussions with regulatory authorities or plaintiffs in any action against the company; uncertainties related to finalizing the pending settlement of class-action securities litigation, including obtaining court approval of the settlement; with respect to future dividends, the decision by the board of directors to declare such dividends, which is expected to consider Cardinal Health's surplus, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects at the time any such action is considered; uncertainties relating to the amount of future share repurchases by Cardinal Health, which can be affected by Cardinal Health's then-current stock price, regulatory restraints on share repurchases, cash flows, financial condition and alternative uses of cash available to Cardinal Health at the time, as well as by the amount of any additional share repurchases authorized by the board of directors; and general economic and market conditions. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.


