FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20070726161104.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company's") news release issued on July 26, 2007 announcing the resolution of the previously disclosed Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") investigation with respect to the Company and closure of a related inquiry by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York described in Item 8.01 below is included as Exhibit 99.01 to this report.
 
On July 26, 2007, the Company announced a settlement with the SEC that concludes, with respect to the Company, the SEC's investigation related to certain financial reporting and disclosure matters. The SEC investigation is more fully described under the heading "SEC Investigation and U.S. Attorney Inquiry" in Note 8 of "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" included in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Under the agreement approved by the SEC, the Company will pay a civil penalty of $35 million, retain an independent consultant to review certain company policies and procedures and be enjoined from future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities laws. As previously disclosed, the Company reserved $35 million relating to the settlement of this matter in the quarters ended June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2005. In settling this matter, the Company neither admitted nor denied the SEC's allegations. The settlement is subject to court approval.
As previously disclosed, the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York had also been conducting a related inquiry. The Company has recently been informed by the U.S. Attorney's Office that it has closed its investigation.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
  7000 Cardinal Place
  Dublin, OH 43017
  www.cardinalhealth.com
 
 Cardinal Health today announced a final settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that concludes with respect to the company an investigation related to its historical financial reporting and disclosures from 2000 to 2004. In addition, the company said a related inquiry being conducted by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York has been closed.
DUBLIN, Ohio, July 26, 2007
Under the agreement approved by the SEC, Cardinal Health will pay a civil penalty of $35 million, retain an independent consultant to review certain company policies and procedures, and be enjoined from future violations of certain provisions of the federal securities laws. As previously disclosed, the company reserved $35 million relating to the settlement of this matter in the quarters ended June 30, 2005 and Dec. 31, 2005.
The settlement covers matters that were the subject of an internal company investigation and earnings restatement in October 2004, as previously disclosed in Cardinal Health's fiscal 2004, 2005 and 2006 Form 10-K filings.
Since the investigation began, Cardinal Health has made a number of important changes to its financial reporting and disclosure practices, hired a new chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and controller, and enhanced its Finance staff to support the size and growth of Cardinal Health. The company also created the position of chief ethics and compliance officer, which it filled in 2005.
In a statement issued today, the SEC acknowledged, and said the terms of the settlement reflected, the cooperation provided by Cardinal Health during the course of the investigation.
Cardinal Health Announces Resolution of SEC Investigation; U.S. Attorney's Office Closes Related Inquiry
Page 2
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is an $80 billion, global company serving the health-care industry with products and services that help hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies reduce costs, improve safety, productivity and profitability, and deliver better care to patients. With a focus on making supply chains more efficient, reducing hospital-acquired infections and breaking the cycle of harmful medication errors, Cardinal Health develops market-leading technologies, including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMined data mining surveillance and the CareFusion patient identification system. The company also manufactures medical and surgical products and is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies worldwide. Ranked No. 19 on the Fortune 500 and No. 1 in its sector on Fortune's ranking of Most Admired firms, Cardinal Health employs more than 40,000 people on five continents. More information about the company may be found at .
www.cardinalhealth.com


