FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20080929070456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) and (e)
On September 26, 2008, the Board of Directors of Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") and the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors approved certain compensation actions, as discussed below, in connection with the Company's planned spin-off of its clinical and medical products businesses (the "Planned Spin-Off").
The Board of Directors approved an amendment to the Company's employment agreement with R. Kerry Clark, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The amendment provides that if Mr. Clark resigns on or within six months of the Planned Spin-Off, he will be entitled to benefits payable upon a termination with "good reason," in accordance with his existing employment agreement as described in the Company's 2008 proxy statement, provided that the Planned Spin-Off occurs by December 31, 2009. The amendment also provides that if Mr. Clark resigns under those circumstances or following the Planned Spin-Off is terminated without cause (including a termination by the Company on account of disability) or dies, each of his equity awards granted at least six months prior to termination (other than the Initial RSUs and Initial Stock Options, which will vest immediately in any event) will continue to vest in accordance with their original terms. Finally, the amendment makes certain technical changes, primarily to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. A copy of the amendment is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.1, and this description is qualified by reference to the amendment. See also Item 8.01 below regarding Mr. Clark's plans to retire after completion of the Planned Spin-Off.
The Compensation Committee approved grants of restricted share units ("RSUs") to certain executives and other employees that will vest on the earliest of the completion of the Planned Spin-Off, a determination by the Board of Directors not to proceed with the Planned Spin-Off or October 15, 2010, provided that the shares issued under the RSUs will be forfeited if the grantee voluntarily terminates employment within five months after the vesting date. The agreements will provide that if the Planned Spin-Off occurs, the Compensation Committee will adjust the shares subject to the RSU award, in accordance with Section 16 of the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended, to deliver an appropriate and equitable number of shares of the Company and newly issued common equity of the clinical and medical products businesses. The form of agreement that will be used for the RSU grants is filed with this report as Exhibit 10.2, and this description is qualified by reference to the agreement.
The Compensation Committee also authorized George S. Barrett, the Company's Vice Chairman of Cardinal Health and Chief Executive Officer, Healthcare Supply Chain Services, and David L. Schlotterbeck, the Company's Vice Chairman of Cardinal Health and Chief Executive Officer, Clinical and Medical Products, to use corporate aircraft for personal travel and authorized the Company to enter into Aircraft Time Sharing Agreements with Messrs. Barrett and Schlotterbeck that would require them to reimburse the Company for specified costs when guests (other than their spouses and dependent children) accompany them on a flight. Under such agreements, Messrs. Barrett and Schlotterbeck would pay a fee based on the cost of fuel, landing fees and in-flight food and beverages for each specific flight or a greater amount mutually agreed to, up to the maximum established under Federal Aviation Administration rules. No tax reimbursement will be provided to Messrs. Barrett and Schlotterbeck for taxes on income attributed to them arising out of their and their immediate family members' personal use of corporate aircraft.
On September 26, 2008, Robert D. Walter, founder and former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company since 1971, informed the Company that he will not stand for re-election when his term expires at the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders. Mr. Walter will continue to serve as a director until the 2008 annual meeting. Mr. Walter has indicated that his reasons for deciding not to stand for re-election are personal and that he has no disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices, including the Planned Spin-Off.
 
On September 29, 2008, the Company issued a news release announcing the Planned Spin-Off. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:30 a.m. EDT on September 29, 2008, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and segment executives will discuss the Planned Spin-Off. A slide presentation that will be posted to the Company's website and referenced during the conference call is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report. A transcript of the conference call will be available on the Investors page at www.cardinalhealth.com.
 
On September 29, 2008, the Company issued a news release announcing the Planned Spin-Off. The Company announced that the Planned Spin-Off will be accomplished through a pro rata distribution to the Company's shareholders. Completion of the Planned Spin-Off is subject to final approval by the Company's Board of Directors, confirmation of the tax-free nature of the Planned Spin-Off and effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement that will be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The Form 10 registration statement is expected to be filed during the Company's fiscal third quarter (January to March 2009) and will include detailed information about the new medical technology company, the Planned Spin-Off and related matters. The Company will distribute an information statement to shareholders following completion of the SEC's review of the Form 10 registration statement. Approval by the Company's shareholders is not required for completion of the Planned Spin-Off.
In connection with the Planned Spin-Off, the Company announced that Mr. Clark will continue to lead the Company through the Planned Spin-Off and then retire as the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Following Mr. Clark's retirement, Mr. Barrett is expected to become the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Jeffrey W. Henderson will remain the Company's Chief Financial Officer. In addition, Michael A. Lynch, the Company's Group President  Medical Specialties, and Michael C. Kaufmann, the Company's Group President  Pharmaceutical Supply Chain, are expected to be named to senior business leader positions within the Company following the Planned Spin-Off.
The Company further announced that Mr. Schlotterbeck is expected to become Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the new medical technology company created as a result of the Planned Spin-Off. Dwight Winstead, currently Group President  Clinical and Medical Products, is expected to be named Chief Operating Officer of the new medical technology company.
The Company announced that it will reassess its capital deployment targets as it refines the capital structure of both companies. Accordingly, share repurchases for this year are expected to total no more than the amount required to offset dilution from issuances of equity compensation. The Company also announced that it expects to continue its regular $0.14 quarterly dividend until the Planned Spin-Off is completed and anticipates that it will continue to pay a dividend after the Planned Spin-Off, but that it is not currently anticipated that the new medical technology company will pay regular dividends.
This Form 8-K report contains forward-looking statements addressing the Planned Spin-Off, the operation, business and prospects of the Company and the new company following the Planned Spin-Off and other expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties include uncertainties regarding the Planned Spin-Off, including the timing and terms of the Planned Spin-Off and whether the Planned Spin-Off will be completed, and uncertainties regarding the impacts on the Company, the new clinical and medical products company and the market for their respective securities if the Planned Spin-Off is accomplished. In addition, the Company and the proposed new clinical and medical products company are subject to additional risks and uncertainties, as described in the Company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Amendment (the "") to the Employment Agreement (the ""), dated as of April 17, 2006, as amended as of September 21, 2007, by and between Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "") and R. Kerry Clark (the ""), is made and entered into as of the 26th day of September, 2008, by and between the Company and Executive.
Amendment
Agreement
Company
Executive
1. Section 4(c) of the Agreement is hereby amended to (A) delete the word "or" after clause (iv), (B) replace the period at the end of clause (v) with "; or" and (C) add the following clause (vi):
(vi) the spinoff to shareholders of the Company of the Clinical and Medical Products businesses of the Company prior to December 31, 2009 (a "CMP Spinoff"); provided that a CMP Spinoff will constitute Good Reason only if the Executive provides a Notice of Termination to the Company in respect thereof within six months following the CMP Spinoff.
2. Section 4(e) of the Agreement is hereby amended to add the following sentence at the end thereof:
A termination (A) by the Executive for the Good Reason event described in Section 4(c)(vi), (B) by the Company upon or at any time following a CMP Spinoff other than for Cause (including a termination by the Company on account of Disability) or (C) upon the Executive's death upon or at any time following a CMP Spinoff, is referred to in this Agreement as a "CMP Termination."
3. The portion of Section 5(a)(i) of the Agreement that precedes subparagraph 5(a)(i)(A) of the Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:
subject to the execution by the Executive and the Company no later than the 22nd day following the Date of Termination (and non-revocation by the Executive) of a mutual release of claims, the Company shall pay to the Executive in a lump sum in cash within 30 days of the Date of Termination the aggregate of the following amounts:
4. Section 5(a)(i)(A) of the Agreement is hereby amended to add the following proviso at the end thereof:
, that notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Executive has made an irrevocable election under any deferred compensation arrangement subject to Section 409A of the Code to defer any portion of the Annual Bonus described in clause (3) above, then for all purposes of this Section 5, such deferral election, and the terms of the applicable arrangement, shall apply to the same portion of the amount described in such clause (3), and such portion shall not be considered as part of the "Accrued Obligations" but shall instead be an "Other Benefit" (as defined below);
provided
5. Section 5(a)(iv) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
(iv) if such termination is prior to the Scheduled End Date, a ratable portion of each installment of each stock option and restricted stock unit granted at least six (6) months prior to the Date of Termination (other than the Initial RSUs and the
 
Initial Stock Options) that would have vested on each future vesting date thereof shall continue to vest and, in the case of stock options, become exercisable in accordance with its terms, without regard to any provisions relating to earlier termination of the stock options based on termination of employment; such ratable portion shall, with respect to the applicable installment, be an amount equal to the number of shares in such installment scheduled to vest on the applicable vesting date multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of days from the date of grant through the date of such termination, and the denominator of which shall be the number of days from the date of grant through such scheduled vesting date; , , that if such termination is a CMP Termination, then the entire portion (and not only a ratable portion) of each stock option and restricted stock unit granted at least six (6) months prior to the Date of Termination (other than the Initial RSUs and the Initial Stock Options) that would have vested on each future vesting date thereof shall continue to vest and, in the case of stock options, become exercisable in accordance with its terms, without regard to any provisions relating to earlier termination of the stock options based on termination of employment (the "Pre-Scheduled End Date Continued Vesting");
provided
however
6. The final paragraph of Section 5(a) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5(a), but subject to the following provisions of this paragraph, (i) any amounts and benefits which constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code that would otherwise be payable or provided under this Section 5(a) prior to the date which is six-months after the Executive's Separation from Service (as defined below) shall instead be paid, with interest on any delayed payment at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code (""), or provided on the first business day after the date that is six months following the Executive's Separation from Service, or, if earlier, upon the Executive's death and (ii) if the Executive incurs a Separation from Service prior to his Date of Termination, the date of his Separation from Service shall be deemed to be his Date of Termination (or equivalent term) for purposes of determining the date of payment or the payment commencement date under this Agreement and with respect to the Executive's currently held restricted stock units and account under the Cardinal Health Deferred Compensation Plan (the "DCP"). Notwithstanding clause (i) above, if any amount of employment taxes, within the meaning of regulations promulgated under Section 409A, are payable prior to the sixth month anniversary of the Executive's Separation from Service with respect to any deferred compensation amount, the Company shall utilize and be deemed to have paid a portion of any such deferred compensation to the extent necessary for the payment of such employment taxes. If any portion of the Executive's restricted stock units or benefits under the DCP are deferred pursuant to the six-month deferral provision in clause (i) above, then (in lieu of the payment of Interest) such restricted stock units or deferred compensation shall be treated during such six-month period, and adjusted for investment performance in the same manner, as outstanding restricted stock units and deferred compensation, and for these purposes, in the event of a CMP Spinoff, the Executive's vested and unvested restricted stock units on the date of the CMP Spinoff will be adjusted in the same manner as vested and unvested restricted stock units, respectively, of other holders of restricted stock units
Interest
 
who remain in the employ of the Company. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Separation from Service" shall be determined in accordance with regulations promulgated under Section 409A of the Code using the default rule under such regulations.
7. Clause (v) of both Section 5(b) and Section 5(c) of the Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
(v) the Initial Grant Vesting Acceleration, the Pre-Scheduled End Date Continued Vesting (if the Termination Date is prior to the Scheduled End Date, and including the vesting described in the proviso to Section 5(a)(iv) if such termination is a CMP Termination), the Post-Scheduled End Date Benefits (if the Termination Date is on or after the Scheduled End Date) and the Extended Exercisability and
8. Section 6 of the Agreement is hereby amended to read in its entirety as follows:
. The Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other claim, right or action which the Company may have against the Executive or others. In no event shall the Executive be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Executive under any of the provisions of this Agreement and, such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Executive obtains other employment. The Company agrees to pay (within 30 days following the Company's receipt of an invoice from the Executive), at any time from the Effective Date through the Executive's remaining lifetime (or, if longer, through the 20
Full Settlement
th
anniversary of the Effective Date), to the full extent permitted by law, all legal fees and expenses which the Executive may reasonably incur as a result of any contest by either party (including, as the case may be, the Company, any of its affiliates or their respective predecessors, successors or assigns, or the Executive, his estate, beneficiaries or their respective successors and assigns) of the validity or enforceability of, or liability under, any provision of this Agreement (including as a result of any contest by the Executive about the amount of any payment pursuant to this Agreement); plus in each case interest on any delayed payment at the applicable Federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code, if the Executive prevails on any material claim made by him, and disputed by the Company under the terms of this Agreement. In order to comply with Section 409A of the Code, in no event shall the payments by the Company under this Section 6 be made later than the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such fees and expenses were incurred, , that the Executive shall have submitted an invoice for such fees and expenses at least 30 days before the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such fees and expenses were incurred. The amount of such legal fees and expenses that the Company is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the legal fees and expenses that the Company is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and the Executive's right to have the Company pay such legal fees and expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit.
provided
9. The Company shall reimburse the Executive for reasonable legal fees incurred by him in connection with the negotiation and execution of this Amendment.
 
10. Except as expressly amended by this Amendment, all terms and conditions of the Agreement remain in full force and effect and are unmodified hereby.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive and the Company have executed this Amendment as of the day and year set forth above.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Agreement is entered into in Franklin County, Ohio. On [grant date] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to [employee name] ("Awardee") [# of shares] Restricted Share Units (the "Restricted Share Units" or "Award"), each of which represents an unfunded, unsecured promise of the Company to deliver one common share, without par value, of the Company to Awardee as set forth herein. The common shares subject to this Award are referred to as the "Shares." The Restricted Share Units have been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and shall be subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and shall be subject to the provisions of this Restricted Share Units Agreement (this "Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan. This Award is granted in connection with the plan to spin-off the Clinical and Medical Products businesses ("CMP") of the Company to the shareholders of the Company (the "Spin-off"). If the Spin-off occurs, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") shall adjust the Shares subject to this Award, in accordance with Section 16 of the Plan, to deliver an appropriate and equitable number of Shares of the Company and newly issued common equity of CMP.
1. . Subject to the provisions of this agreement, the Restricted Share Units shall vest on the earliest of (a) the Spin-off, (b) determination by the Board not to proceed with the Spin-off, or (c) October 15, 2010 (the "Vesting Date"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Change of Control prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Restricted Share Units shall vest in full.
Vesting
2. . Prior to the Delivery Date (as defined below) of the Shares under this Agreement, Awardee shall not be permitted to sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise encumber the Restricted Share Units.
Transferability
3. . Except as set forth in the last sentence of this Paragraph, if a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting of the Restricted Share Units, the Restricted Share Units shall be forfeited by Awardee. If Awardee voluntarily terminates employment with the Company after vesting of the Award, but prior to the Delivery Date, the Restricted Share Units shall be forfeited by Awardee. If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the vesting of the Restricted Share Units by reason of Awardee's death or Disability, but at least 6 months from the Grant Date, then the Restricted Share Units shall immediately vest in full and shall not be forfeited. For the purpose of this Agreement, an Employee shall not be considered to have a Termination of Employment, if his or her employer is CMP or one of its affiliates when it is spun-off from the Company, provided that he or she shall have a Termination of Employment, if he or she ceases to be an employee of CMP or one of its affiliates after the Spin-off.
Termination of Employment
4. . As used in this Agreement, "Triggering Conduct" shall include the following: disclosing or using in any capacity other than as necessary in the performance of duties assigned by the Company and its Affiliates (collectively, the "Cardinal Group") any confidential information (including without limitation the information described in Paragraph 18), trade secrets or other business sensitive information or material concerning the Cardinal Group; violation of Company policies, including but not limited to conduct which would constitute a breach of any certificate of compliance or similar attestation/ certification signed by Awardee; directly or indirectly employing, contacting concerning employment, or participating in any way in the recruitment for employment of (whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent
Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct
contractor), any person who was or is an employee, representative, officer or director of the Cardinal Group at any time within the 12 months prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment; any action by Awardee and/or his or her representatives that either does or could reasonably be expected to undermine, diminish or otherwise damage the relationship between the Cardinal Group and any of its customers, potential customers, vendors and/or suppliers that were known to Awardee; and breaching any provision of any employment or severance agreement with a member of the Cardinal Group. As used in this Agreement, "Competitor Triggering Conduct" shall include, either during Awardee's employment or within one year following Termination of Employment, accepting employment with or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to an entity that is in competition with the business conducted by any member of the Cardinal Group (a "Competitor"), including, but not limited to, employment or another business relationship with any Competitor if Awardee has been introduced to trade secrets, confidential information or business sensitive information during Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group and such information would aid the Competitor because the threat of disclosure of such information is so great that, for purposes of this Agreement, it must be assumed that such disclosure would occur.
5. . For so long as Awardee continues as an Employee with the Cardinal Group and for three years following Termination of Employment regardless of the reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Triggering Conduct. If Awardee engages in Triggering Conduct during the time period set forth in the preceding sentence or in Competitor Triggering Conduct during the time period referenced in the definition of "Competitor Triggering Conduct" set forth in Paragraph 4 above, then:
Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules
(a) any Restricted Share Units that have not yet vested or that vested within the Look-Back Period (as defined below) with respect to such Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct and have not yet been settled by a payment pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof shall immediately and automatically terminate, be forfeited, and cease to exist; and
(b) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company an amount equal to (x) the aggregate gross gain realized or obtained by Awardee resulting from the settlement of all Restricted Share Units pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof (measured as of the settlement date (i.e., the market value of the Restricted Share Units on such settlement date)) that have already been settled and that had vested at any time within three years prior to the Triggering Conduct (the "Look-Back Period"), minus (y) $1.00. If Awardee engages only in Competitor Triggering Conduct, then the Look-Back Period shall be shortened to exclude any period more than one year prior to Awardee's Termination of Employment, but including any period between the time of Termination of Employment and the time of Awardee's engaging in Competitor Triggering Conduct.
Awardee may be released from his or her obligations under this Paragraph 5 if and only if the Administrator (or its duly appointed designee) determines, in writing and in its sole discretion, that such action is in the best interests of the Company. Nothing in this Paragraph 5 constitutes a so-called "noncompete" covenant. This Paragraph 5 does, however, prohibit certain conduct while Awardee is associated with the Cardinal Group and thereafter and does provide for the forfeiture or repayment of the benefits granted by this Agreement under certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, Awardee's acceptance of employment with a Competitor. Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to directly or indirectly accepting employment with, or serving as a consultant or advisor or in any other capacity to, a Competitor, and further agrees to inform any such new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this Paragraph 5 and Awardee's continuing obligations contained herein. No provision of this Agreement shall diminish, negate or otherwise impact any separate noncompete or other agreement to which Awardee may be a party, including, but not limited to, any of the certificates of compliance or similar attestation/certification signed by Awardee; provided, however,
 
that to the extent that any provisions contained in any other agreement are inconsistent in any manner with the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall take precedence and such other inconsistent provisions shall be null and void. Awardee acknowledges and agrees that the provisions contained in this Agreement are being made for the benefit of the Company in consideration of Awardee's receipt of the Restricted Share Units, in consideration of employment, in consideration of exposing Awardee to the Company's business operations and confidential information, and for other good and valuable consideration, the adequacy of which consideration is hereby expressly confirmed. Awardee further acknowledges that the receipt of the Restricted Share Units and execution of this Agreement are voluntary actions on the part of Awardee and that the Company is unwilling to provide the Restricted Share Units to Awardee without including the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this Agreement. Further, the parties agree and acknowledge that the provisions contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time the agreement is made.
6. . Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this Agreement, and unless Awardee makes an effective election to defer receipt of the Shares, Awardee shall be entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 11) the Shares on the date that is five months after vesting of the Restricted Share Units; provided, however, that, subject to the next sentence, in the event that such Restricted Share Units vest prior to the Vesting Date as a result of the death or Disability of Awardee or as a result of a Change of Control, Awardee shall be entitled to receive the Shares from the Company on the date of vesting. Notwithstanding the proviso of the preceding sentence, if the Restricted Share Units vest as a result of the occurrence of a Change of Control under circumstances where such occurrence would not qualify as a permissible date of distribution under Section 409A(a)(2)(A) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder, and where Code Section 409A applies to such distribution, such proviso shall not apply and Awardee shall be entitled to receive the corresponding Shares from the Company on the date that would have applied absent such proviso. Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the date of settlement provided herein may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. For purposes of this Agreement, the "Delivery Date" is the date that Awardee is entitled to receive the Shares without regard to any election to defer receipt.
Delivery of Shares
7. . Awardee shall not receive cash dividends on the Restricted Share Units but instead shall, with respect to each Restricted Share Unit, receive a cash payment from the Company on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date between the Grant Date and the delivery of the Shares pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof, such cash payment to be in an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid on the Common Share represented by such unit. Cash payments on each cash dividend payment date with respect to the Shares with a record date prior to the Delivery Date shall be accrued until the Delivery Date and paid thereon; provided that if Awardee is not entitled to receive the Shares on the Delivery Date without regard to any election to defer receipt, then such cash dividends shall not be paid to Awardee. Awardee shall not receive non-cash dividends on the Restricted Share Units, but in the event of the Spin-off or other Organic Change, the Shares shall be subject to adjustment under Section 16 of the Plan.
Dividend Equivalents
8. . If Awardee is classified as an "officer" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, on the Grant Date, then, as a condition to receipt of the Restricted Share Units, Awardee hereby agrees to hold the Shares (less any portion thereof withheld in order to satisfy all applicable federal, state, local or foreign income, employment or other tax) until the first anniversary of the applicable Vesting Date (or, if earlier, the date of Awardee's Termination of Employment).
Holding Period Requirement
 
9. . By accepting these Restricted Share Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
10. . Awardee shall have no rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Share Units, including, without limitation, Awardee shall not have the right to vote the Shares represented by the Restricted Share Units.
No Shareholder Rights
11. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Restricted Share Units (including taxes owed with respect to the cash payments described in Paragraph 7 hereof), regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Restricted Share Units. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Restricted Share Units or the subsequent sale of the Shares. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Restricted Share Units to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
(b) . Prior to any event in connection with the Restricted Share Units (e.g., vesting or settlement) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. Unless Awardee elects to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by an alternative means that is then permitted by the Company, Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement constitutes Awardee's instruction and authorization to the Company to withhold on Awardee's behalf the number of Shares, when the Restricted Share Units become vested and payable, as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation. In the case of any amounts withheld for taxes pursuant to this provision in the form of Shares, the amount withheld shall not exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 7 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
12. . This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superceded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living in any capacity that does not violate such covenants. The parties further agree that in the event of any violation by Awardee of any such covenants, the Company will suffer immediate and irreparable injury for which there is no adequate remedy at law. In the event of any violation or attempted violations of the restrictions and covenants of Awardee contained in this
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Restricted Share Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
 
Agreement, the Cardinal Group shall be entitled to specific performance and injunctive relief or other equitable relief, including the issuance ex parte of a temporary restraining order, without any showing of irreparable harm or damage, such irreparable harm being acknowledged and admitted by Awardee, and Awardee hereby waives any requirement for the securing or posting of any bond in connection with such remedy, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies afforded the Cardinal Group hereunder or by law. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Cardinal Group to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company with regard to such proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
13. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement shall rest exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator (hereinafter the "Designee"). In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator or its Designee may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties or such other material as the Administrator or its Designee deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator or its Designee and that any decision of the Administrator or its Designee relating to this Agreement, including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Triggering Conduct or Competitor Triggering Conduct, shall be final and binding unless such decision is arbitrary and capricious.
Action by the Administrator
14. . The Restricted Share Unit grant evidenced by this Agreement shall, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
15. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Restricted Share Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Restricted Share Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means or to request Awardee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of restricted share unit grants and the execution of restricted share unit agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
16. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
 
 
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Awardee.
17. . To the extent an employment agreement, offer letter or other arrangement ("Employment Arrangement") provides for greater benefits to Awardee with respect to vesting or other terms of the Award on Termination of Employment or otherwise than provided in this Agreement or in the Plan, then the terms of this Agreement shall supersede the terms of such Employment Arrangement and the Employment Arrangement shall be deemed to be amended to conform with the terms of this Agreement.
Employment Agreement, Offer Letter or Other Arrangement
18. . Except as required by law, Awardee will not disclose to anyone, other than Awardee's immediate family and legal, tax or financial advisors, the existence or contents of this Agreement; provided that Awardee may disclose to any prospective future employer the provisions of Paragraphs 4 and 5 of this Agreement provided any such future employer agrees to maintain the confidentiality of such terms. If Awardee violates the provisions of this Paragraph, then Awardee shall forfeit the Award in accordance with the terms of Paragraphs 4 and 5.
Confidentiality of this Agreement
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders, and a copy of the Plan Description dated [date of Plan Description] pertaining to the Plan; (b) accepts this Agreement and the Restricted Share Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the agreement regarding "Triggering Conduct/Competitor Triggering Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture/Repayment Rules" set forth in paragraphs 4 and 5 above and "Confidentiality of this Agreement" set forth in paragraph 18 above; (c) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement; (d) represents and warrants to the Company that he or she is purchasing the Restricted Share Units for his or her own account, for investment, and not with a view to or any present intention of selling or distributing the Restricted Share Units either now or at any specific or determinable future time or period or upon the occurrence or nonoccurrence of any predetermined or reasonably foreseeable event; and (e) agrees that no transfer of the Shares delivered in respect of the Restricted Share Units shall be made unless the Shares have been duly registered under all applicable Federal and state securities laws pursuant to a then-effective registration which contemplates the proposed transfer or unless the Company has received a written opinion of, or satisfactory to, its legal counsel that the proposed transfer is exempt from such registration.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, OH 43017
www.cardinalhealth.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 Cardinal Health, a global provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of health care, today announced plans for a tax-free spin-off of its clinical and medical products businesses as a separate public company that will be led by current vice chairman and med-tech industry veteran David L. Schlotterbeck.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Sept. 29, 2008
As a result of the spin-off, which is anticipated to be completed by the middle of calendar 2009, both companies are expected to benefit from enhanced management focus and sharper strategic vision, as well as better alignment of management and employee incentives with performance and growth objectives. In addition, both companies expect improved opportunities to access and allocate capital, and the ability to make investments in their respective growth areas.
The company also announced that Chairman and CEO R. Kerry Clark, 56, will continue to lead Cardinal Health through the spin-off and then will retire from the company. Clark will be succeeded by George S. Barrett, 53, who has served as vice chairman and CEO of Healthcare Supply Chain Services since joining Cardinal Health in January. Barrett has more than 25 years of experience in the health care industry, most recently serving as president and CEO of North America for Teva Pharmaceuticals and as a member of Teva's Office of the CEO. In addition to his responsibility for North American operations, he led Teva's global pharmaceutical strategy.
"Since 1996, Cardinal Health has built an industry-leading med-tech business that, as an independent company, would have the size and scale to stand on its own," said Clark. "This business will be well-positioned to deliver maximum value to customers and shareholders over the long term.
"We undertook a very disciplined exploratory process that involved our board, management and outside advisers. The result was a unanimous decision to move forward with the spin-off. This strategic decision will benefit Cardinal Health and the new med-tech company by allowing each business to focus on its unique growth strategies, capital needs and customer requirements.
Cardinal Health News
Page 2
 
"The substantial strategic and operational steps we have taken put us in the very competitive and enviable market positions we have today. I believe our customers, employees and shareholders will benefit from our ability to be even more focused, and I look forward to leading the effort to complete the spin-off."
In addition, the company announced that founder Robert D. Walter will retire from its board of directors by not standing for re-election when his term expires on Nov. 5, following the company's 2008 annual meeting of shareholders. He will continue to serve as an adviser to the company.
"I am fully supportive of our plans to spin off the clinical and medical products businesses and am confident that the two businesses will be well positioned as separate companies," Walter said. "With strong teams in place to lead these two organizations, my retirement from the board is the next logical step in my leadership transition at Cardinal Health."
A new, global medical-technology company
The spin-off of the clinical and medical products businesses will create a new, global company headquartered in San Diego, with industry-leading offerings for infusion, medication and supply dispensing, respiratory care, infection prevention, medical diagnostics and surgical procedures. Products will include the Alaris IV infusion and Pyxis dispensing systems, AVEA and LTV series ventilators, V. Mueller surgical instruments, and clinically differentiated offerings to reduce hospital-acquired infections through MedMined services and ChloraPrep preoperative skin preparation. Fiscal 2009 pro forma revenue for these businesses as a stand-alone entity is expected to be more than $4 billion
1
, which would place the independent company among the largest medical-technology firms globally.
Schlotterbeck, 61, joined Cardinal Health in 2004 through the $2 billion acquisition of Alaris Medical Systems where he was president and CEO. Prior to Alaris, he was president and chief operating officer of Pacific Scientific Company; president and CEO of Vitalcom, Inc. and executive vice president and chief operating officer of Nellcor, Inc. He currently serves as vice chairman and CEO of Clinical and Medical Products for Cardinal Health.
Dwight Winstead, 59, currently group president of Clinical and Medical Products, will be named chief operating officer, reporting to Schlotterbeck. An external search has been launched to select a chief financial officer for the new medical-technology company.
A more focused Cardinal Health
With fiscal 2009 revenue adjusted for the spin-off at more than $90 billion
1
, Cardinal Health is an industry leader in pharmaceutical and medical product distribution. It is also one of the largest providers of products and services to acute care hospitals in the U.S. and the leading nuclear pharmacy provider, preparing more than 13 million doses of highly specialized radiopharmaceuticals each year. Cardinal Health will retain its industry leading surgical gloves, drapes and apparel, and fluid management businesses that are currently part of the Clinical and Medical Products segment. Cardinal Health also will retain a group of other businesses including Pharmacy Services (outsourced hospital pharmacy management services) and Medicine Shoppe International, while the company conducts a previously announced in-depth review to evaluate their strategic fit. Cardinal Health will continue to be headquartered in Dublin, Ohio.
Cardinal Health News
Page 3
 
Jeffrey W. Henderson, 43, will remain chief financial officer of Cardinal Health, a position he has held since 2005, and will report to Barrett after the spin-off. In addition, Michael A. Lynch and Michael C. Kaufmann will be named to senior business leader positions within Cardinal Health.
Clark to retire
Clark joined as president and CEO in April 2006 following a 32-year career at Procter & Gamble. During his tenure with Cardinal Health, he focused the company  through organic growth, acquisition and divestiture  on the global opportunity to help hospitals, physicians and pharmacies make the practice and delivery of health care safer and more productive. Under his leadership, the company acquired medical-technology leaders, MedMined, Care Fusion, VIASYS Healthcare and Enturia to bolster its patient-safety offerings, and divested a $2 billion business that developed, manufactured and packaged medicine for the pharmaceutical industry. Clark also took important steps to strengthen the management team and provide a focus on people for succession planning and development of future company leaders. He was named chairman and CEO in September 2007.
"Kerry has led the company through the important, strategic decisions to position Cardinal Health and our medical technologies spin-off company very strongly in their respective markets," said Richard C. Notebaert, presiding director of the Cardinal Health board. "His tenure has been, and will continue to be as he leads the company through the spin-off, critical to long-term value creation for customers and shareholders."
Completing the spin-off
The proposed tax-free spin-off will be accomplished through a pro rata distribution to Cardinal Health shareholders. Completion of the spin-off is subject to final approval by Cardinal Health's board of directors, confirmation of the tax-free nature of the transaction, as well as effectiveness of a Form 10 registration statement to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The Form 10 is expected to be filed during the company's fiscal third quarter (January to March 2009) and will include detailed information about the new medical-technology company, the spin-off and related matters. The company will distribute an information statement to shareholders following completion of the SEC's review of the Form 10. Approval by the company's shareholders is not required for completion of the spin-off.
Both companies are expected to be well capitalized to provide financial flexibility to take advantage of future growth opportunities. They are expected to have financial policies, balance sheets and credit metrics that are commensurate with investment-grade credit ratings.
Cardinal Health will reassess its capital deployment targets as it refines the capital structure of both companies. Share repurchases for this year are expected to total no more than the amount required to offset dilution from issuances for equity compensation. Cardinal Health also expects to continue its regular $0.14 quarterly dividend until the spin-off is completed and anticipates that it will continue to pay a dividend after the spin-off. It is not currently anticipated that the new medical-technology company will pay regular dividends.
The company expects that Cardinal Health historical financial statements, adjusted for the spin-off, will be available toward the middle of calendar 2009.
Cardinal Health News
Page 4
 
Outlook
For the current fiscal 2009, the company reiterated guidance it provided on Aug. 7 for revenue growth of 6 percent to 7 percent and non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations
2
to be in a range of $3.80 to $3.95. Non-GAAP EPS in the first quarter is still expected to be around $0.70, with EPS returning to more normal levels in the second quarter and overall results stronger in the second half of the year. The company's guidance does not reflect any incremental costs it will incur associated with the spin-off and separation of the two companies. The company expects a significant portion of these costs will be classified as special items in accordance with company practices.
Conference call and Q1 earnings
Cardinal Health will host a conference call and webcast at 8:30 a.m. EDT to discuss today's news. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investor page at www.cardinalhealth.com. The conference call may also be accessed by calling 617-213-8052, conference passcode 47080658. An audio replay will be available until 11:30 p.m. EDT on Oct. 1 at 617-801-6888, passcode 60300274. A transcript and audio replay will also be available at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
Cardinal Health plans to release first-quarter results for fiscal 2009 on Wednesday, Oct. 29, prior to the opening of trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The company has scheduled a webcast and conference call for Oct. 29 at 8:30 a.m. EDT to discuss results of the quarter. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, visit the Investor page at www.cardinalhealth.com or dial 617-213-4845, passcode 12574826.
Participants are advised to pre-register at the Investor page at www.cardinalhealth.com or to dial into the call at least 10 minutes prior to the start time. Pre-registrants are issued a pin number that provides faster access to the live call. Presentation slides, an audio replay and a transcript will be archived on the Web site after the conclusion of the meeting. The audio replay will also be available until 11 p.m. EDT on Oct. 31 by dialing 617-801-6888, passcode 49513300.
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $91 billion, global company serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies reduce costs, improve safety, productivity and profitability, and deliver better care to patients. With a focus on making supply chains more efficient, reducing hospital-acquired infections and breaking the cycle of harmful medication errors, Cardinal Health develops market leading technologies, including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMined infection surveillance services and the CareFusion patient identification system. The company also manufactures medical and surgical products and is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies worldwide. Ranked No. 19 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 40,000 people on five continents. More information about the company may be found at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
 
Cardinal Health News
Page 5
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Cardinal Health presents non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations (and presentations derived from this financial measure, including per share calculations) on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure is earnings from continuing operations. The company is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast special items and impairments, (gain)/loss on sale of assets and other, net, which are difficult to predict and estimate. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact the company's future financial results.
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements addressing expected financial results of Cardinal Health, the planned spin-off of Cardinal Health's clinical and medical products businesses as a separate company, the expected financial results of the new company and Cardinal Health after giving effect to the spin-off of the new company, the operation, business and prospects of Cardinal Health and the new company following the planned spin-off and other expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties include uncertainties regarding the planned spin-off of the clinical and medical products businesses as a new stand-alone entity, including the timing and terms of any such spin-off and whether such spin-off will be completed, and uncertainties regarding the impacts on Cardinal Health, the new clinical and medical products company and the market for their respective securities if the spin-off is accomplished. In addition, Cardinal Health and the proposed new clinical and medical products company are subject to additional risks and uncertainties described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, including (but not limited to) the following: competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; uncertainties relating to timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation or generic pharmaceutical price deflation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health-care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal or administrative proceedings; future actions of regulatory bodies or government authorities relating to Cardinal Health's manufacturing or sale of products and other costs or claims that could arise from its manufacturing, compounding or repackaging operations or from its other services; difficulties and uncertainties related to the integration of acquired businesses; and conditions in the pharmaceutical market and general economic and market conditions. This news release reflects management's views as of September 29, 2008. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.



