FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20080708080856.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Portions of this Form 8-K of Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") include forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in the Company's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: difficulties, delays or additional costs in implementing the restructuring program referred to in this report; competitive pressures in the Company's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; uncertainties relating to the timing of generic or branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation or generic pharmaceutical price deflation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for healthcare products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal or administrative proceedings; future actions of regulatory bodies or government authorities relating to the Company's manufacturing or sale of products and other costs or claims that could arise from its manufacturing, compounding or repackaging operations or from its other services; the costs, difficulties and uncertainties related to the integration of acquired businesses; and conditions in the pharmaceutical market and general economic and market conditions. These forward-looking statements reflect management's views as of the date of this filing. Except to the extent required by applicable law, the Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
On July 8, 2008, the Company issued a news release announcing the consolidation of its businesses into two primary operating and reportable segments and reaffirming fiscal 2008 non-GAAP earnings-per-share guidance. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
On July 8, 2008, the Company announced the consolidation of its businesses into two primary operating and reportable segments to reduce costs and align resources with the needs of each segment. To reflect the new management structure, beginning July 1, 2008, the Company will report results for three reportable segments: Healthcare Supply Chain Services, Clinical and Medical Products and an All Other segment. The new Healthcare Supply Chain Services reportable segment will primarily comprise the Company's pharmaceutical and medical products distribution and nuclear pharmacy businesses. The new Clinical and Medical Products reportable segment will primarily comprise the Company's infusion, medication dispensing, respiratory care and infection prevention businesses. The new All Other segment will comprise the following businesses: pharmacy services (outsourced hospital pharmacy management services); Tecomet (orthopedic implants and instruments); Medsystems (enteral devices and airway management products); and Medicine Shoppe International. The segments will be connected by a lean corporate organization and the Company's hospital sales force. As part of this restructuring, the Company expects to reduce its workforce by approximately 600 positions.
On July 2, 2008, the Company was authorized to incur certain costs associated with exit or disposal activities in connection with this restructuring plan. At this time, the Company is able to provide an estimate of certain of these costs. These estimates may change in the future. The Company expects additional costs to be incurred in connection with this restructuring plan that it cannot estimate at this time.
The total costs associated with this restructuring plan that are currently estimable are approximately $63 million. Substantially all of these costs are expected to be incurred in fiscal 2009. All but $7 million of these costs are employee-related costs, with the remainder being related to the consolidation and retirement of certain IT systems and other restructuring costs. Substantially all of the total costs are expected to result in future cash expenditures. The Company expects this restructuring plan to be substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2009.
 
On July 8, 2008, the Company posted a slide on its investor relations website providing more detail about the businesses comprising its new segment reporting structure. A copy of this slide is included as Exhibit 99.3 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, OH 43017
www.cardinalhealth.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 Cardinal Health, a global provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of health care, today announced a consolidation of its businesses into two primary operating and reporting segments to reduce costs and align resources with the unique needs of each segment.
DUBLIN, Ohio, July 8, 2008
Cardinal Health's network of pharmaceutical and medical product distribution centers and nuclear pharmacies will form the Healthcare Supply Chain Services segment, led by Vice Chairman George S. Barrett. With annual revenue of more than $80 billion, this segment serves customers in North America with efficient and secure distribution services for prescription medicine and medical products.
Industry leading products for infusion, medication dispensing, respiratory care and infection prevention will be grouped in the Clinical and Medical Products segment under the leadership of Vice Chairman David L. Schlotterbeck. With annual revenue of approximately $5 billion, this segment serves global customers with clinically differentiated products used in hospitals and other primary care facilities.
The segments will be connected by a lean corporate organization and Cardinal Health's hospital sales force.
With these changes, the company will reduce its workforce by approximately 600 positions under a restructuring charge of approximately $63 million, the substantial majority of which it expects to recognize in the current fiscal year, which began July 1. Of those positions, about 160 are currently open and will not be filled. Employees affected will be offered severance benefits.
"Through this restructuring, we sharpen our focus on two distinct, large and growing segments of the health care industry by aligning our resources, reducing costs and helping to speed decision making for our customers," said R. Kerry Clark, chairman and CEO of Cardinal Health. "In many ways, these changes formalize the organization we began to put in place 18 months ago and will make us a stronger company that has a greater focus on both our supplier-customers and provider-customers, with a goal of creating more value for shareholders.
 
Cardinal Health Formalizes Consolidation of Businesses into Two Primary Operating and Reporting
Segments
Page 2
 
"In fiscal 09, we remain committed to the turn-around of our pharmaceutical supply chain business, as we continue to strengthen our medical supply chain business, invest in an innovative pipeline of clinical products and ensure we have strong regulatory compliance programs in place across the company. We will also continue to optimize our portfolio to strengthen the core business. In all, we will do fewer things exceptionally well, all under our mission to make health care safer and more productive."
Healthcare Supply Chain Services
The Healthcare Supply Chain Services segment consolidates pharmaceuticals and medical products from thousands of manufacturers into site-specific deliveries to retail pharmacies, hospitals, physician offices, surgery centers and alternate care facilities. With more than 18,000 employees in operations across North America, Cardinal Health provides comprehensive financial, inventory, contract management and marketing services. Cardinal Health is also the largest provider of specialized nuclear pharmaceuticals, delivering more than 13 million doses each year to hospitals and outpatient care centers.
Clinical and Medical Products
The Clinical and Medical Products segment manufactures medication infusion and dispensing products, respiratory equipment, surgical instruments and leading technologies and services that help hospitals prevent medication errors, reduce hospital-acquired infections and manage medications and supplies more efficiently. Cardinal Health products provide protection against medication errors for more than 3.1 billion doses each year using CareFusion patient identification systems, Alaris infusion devices and Pyxis medication dispensing systems. Infection prevention products include Converters brand surgical gowns, Esteem brand medical gloves, Chloraprep brand preoperative skin preparation products, as well as electronic infection surveillance through MedMined services. The segment also leads in the respiratory care category through its AVEA respirators and other leading ventilation brands. Clinical and Medical Products' global operations employ more than 20,000 people on five continents.
As part of the restructuring, Cardinal Health will also separately report results for a group of other businesses as a third reporting segment. These units include Pharmacy Services (outsourced hospital pharmacy management services), Tecomet (orthopedic implants and instruments), Medsystems (enteral devices and airway management products) and Medicine Shoppe International. While these businesses continue to add value to Cardinal Health, the company will be conducting an in-depth review during the next 12 months to evaluate their fit in the existing segment structure.
Outlook and Q4 Earnings Call
The company reaffirmed that non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations
1
for fiscal 2008 are expected to be about in the middle of a $3.75 to $3.85 range, excluding the potential dilutive impact of the Enturia acquisition of 1 to 2 cents.
Cardinal Health will announce fourth quarter and full-year results on Aug. 7 during an extended call with financial analysts and investors. At that time, the company will provide its financial outlook for the current year and provide historic financial data, recast according to the new reporting segments. Going forward, the company will report and provide guidance based on the primary segments with relevant metrics for the key underlying businesses in each.
 
Cardinal Health Formalizes Consolidation of Businesses into Two Primary Operating and Reporting
Segments
Page 3
 
The Aug. 7 conference call and webcast will begin at 8:30 a.m. EDT at the Investor page of www.cardinalhealth.com. The conference call may also be accessed by dialing 617-213-4850, passcode 97674427.
Participants are advised to pre-register at the Investor page at or to dial into the call at least ten minutes prior to the start time. Pre-registrants are issued a pin number that provides faster access to the live call. Presentation slides, an audio replay and a transcript will be archived on the Web site after the conclusion of the meeting. The audio replay will also be available until 11:30 p.m. EDT on August 9 by dialing 617-801-6888, passcode 28260453.
www.cardinalhealth.com
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is an $87 billion, global company serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals, physician offices and pharmacies reduce costs, improve safety, productivity and profitability, and deliver better care to patients. With a focus on making supply chains more efficient, reducing hospital-acquired infections and breaking the cycle of harmful medication errors, Cardinal Health develops market leading technologies, including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing systems, MedMined infection surveillance services and the CareFusion patient identification system. The company also manufactures medical and surgical products and is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies worldwide. Ranked No. 19 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 40,000 people on five continents. More information about the company may be found at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
1
Non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations: earnings from continuing operations, excluding special items and impairment charges and other, both net of tax, divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Cardinal Health presents non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations (and presentations derived from this financial measure, including per share calculations) on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure is earnings from continuing operations. The company is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP measure to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure, because the company cannot reliably forecast special items and impairment charges and other, which are difficult to predict and estimate. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact the company's future financial results.
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports, and include (but are not limited to) the following: difficulties, delays or additional costs in implementing the restructuring program; competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; uncertainties relating to timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of
 
Cardinal Health Formalizes Consolidation of Businesses into Two Primary Operating and Reporting
Segments
Page 4
 
branded pharmaceutical price appreciation or generic pharmaceutical price deflation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal or administrative proceedings; future actions of regulatory bodies or government authorities relating to Cardinal Health's manufacturing or sale of products and other costs or claims that could arise from its manufacturing, compounding or repackaging operations or from its other services; the costs, difficulties and uncertainties related to the integration of acquired businesses; and conditions in the pharmaceutical market and general economic and market conditions. This news release reflects management's views as of July 8, 2008. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.

Exhibit 99.2
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company's") news release issued on July 8, 2008 contains non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the amounts that have been adjusted as a supplemental metric to assist readers. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures are included in the news release.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations" and presentations derived from this measure, including the per share calculation described in the July 8, 2008 news release. This non-GAAP financial measure excludes special items, net of tax, and impairment charges and other, net of tax.
Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and presentations derived from it (per share calculation).
The Company classifies restructuring charges, acquisition integration charges and certain litigation and other items as special items. A restructuring activity is a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. Restructuring charges include employee-related costs, facility exit costs and asset impairments.
Acquisition integration charges include costs to integrate acquired companies. Acquisition integration charges include employee-related costs, asset impairments and other exit costs, and in-process research and development costs.
Amounts attributable to significant lawsuits that are infrequent, non-recurring or unusual in nature as well as all litigation gains are recognized as "litigation and other" in special items. The Company also classified legal fees and document preservation and production costs incurred in connection with the previously-disclosed SEC investigation and related matters as special items.
Asset impairments and gains and losses from the sale of assets not eligible to be classified as special items or discontinued operations are classified within impairment charges and other within the consolidated statements of earnings.
For further discussion of items classified as special items and impairment charges and other, see the notes to the financial statements contained in the Company's Annual and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q.
Management uses non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations to evaluate the Company's performance. As the Company's core business is providing healthcare products and services to the healthcare industry, management finds it useful to use financial measures that do not include charges and gains associated with restructuring, merger-related activity and litigation and other asset impairments and gains and losses from the sale of assets. While these special items and impairment charges may be recurring, management believes that these items and charges are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of its products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions, without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business.
The limitation associated with using this non-GAAP measure is that this measure excludes items that impact the Company's current period operating results. In most cases, the excluded items include
transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. This limitation is best addressed by using this non-GAAP measure in combination with earnings from continuing operations (the most comparable GAAP measure) and presentations derived from this measure because the non-GAAP measure does not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the most comparable GAAP measure. Management believes that investors may find it useful to evaluate the components of special items and impairment charges and other separately and in the aggregate when reviewing the Company's performance.
 



