FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20090630172207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 30, 2009, Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal Health") disclosed recast quarterly statements of earnings for Cardinal Health for fiscal 2009 adjusted to present the estimated impact of removal of the CareFusion businesses, which statements of earnings are included as Exhibit 99.01 to this report.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.01
The Cardinal Health, Inc. and subsidiaries ("Cardinal Health") unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings included below consist of unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2008, December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings included below have been derived from the historical condensed consolidated statements of earnings included in Cardinal Health's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 30, 2008, December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009 and have been adjusted to present the estimated impact of removal of the CareFusion businesses. Certain surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management businesses that are currently part of the Clinical and Medical Products segment will be retained by Cardinal Health and will continue to be presented within continuing operations.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings do not necessarily reflect the results of operations that will be presented within Cardinal Health's consolidated statements of earnings subsequent to the completion of the planned spin-off of its clinical and medical products businesses. In addition, they do not reflect what the results of operations would have been if Cardinal Health had actually operated without the CareFusion businesses during the periods shown nor are they necessarily indicative of Cardinal Health's future results of operations. The assumptions and estimates used and pro forma adjustments derived from such assumptions are based on currently available information, and management believes such assumptions and estimates are reasonable under the circumstances.
 
 
 
The sum of the quarterly data may not equal year to date due to rounding.
 
 
 
The sum of the quarterly data may not equal year to date due to rounding.
 
 
 
The sum of the quarterly data may not equal year to date due to rounding.
 
GAAP
earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
NON-GAAP
non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) special items and (2) impairments, (gain)/loss on sale of assets and other, net, each net of tax
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations:
1
operating earnings excluding (1) special items and (2) impairments, (gain)/loss on sale of assets and other, net
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings:
1
 
 


