FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20090602071047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01     Regulation FD Disclosure
As previously announced, Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal Health") is hosting its annual analyst and investor day on June 2, 2009 in Boston. The sessions will provide information about, among other things, the planned spin-off of CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion"), including a discussion of estimated spin-off costs, and Cardinal Health's and CareFusion's businesses following the planned spin-off. Management will re-affirm Cardinal Health's fiscal 2009 non-GAAP earnings-per-share guidance at the meeting and provide fiscal 2009 non-GAAP earnings-per-share estimates for Cardinal Health as recast giving effect to the planned spin-off of CareFusion and other items. Management will also share initial thoughts on fiscal 2010 through 2012 financial performance for both Cardinal Health and CareFusion.
A webcast of the meeting will begin at 8:30 a.m. EDT and may be accessed at the Investor page of Cardinal Health's website at www.cardinalhealth.com. Presentation slides, an audio replay and transcript will be archived on the website after the conclusion of the meeting. Copies of Cardinal Health's and CareFusion's presentation slides are included as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this report. An appendix containing certain recast financial information for Cardinal Health adjusted to present the estimated impact of the CareFusion businesses as discontinued operations and GAAP reconciliations is included as Exhibit 99.3 to this report. An appendix containing CareFusion financial results and pro forma financial information for the nine months ended March 31, 2009 is included as Exhibit 99.4 to this report. This information is being provided at the investor day.
Cardinal Health also announced on June 2, 2009 a 25% increase in its regular quarterly dividend to $0.175 per share. Cardinal Health's previously announced dividend payable on July 15, 2009 for shareholders of record on July 1, 2009 will be increased to $0.175 per share. A copy of the news release announcing the dividend increase is included as Exhibit 99.5 to this report.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 



Exhibit 99.3
The Cardinal Health, Inc. and subsidiaries ("Cardinal Health") unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements included below consist of unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of earnings for the nine months ended March 31, 2009 and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007, unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheets as of March 31, 2009, June 30, 2008 and 2007, and unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the nine months ended March 31, 2009 and for the fiscal years ended June 30, 2008 and 2007. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements included below have been derived from the historical condensed consolidated financial statements included in Cardinal Health's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and have been adjusted to present the estimated impact of the CareFusion businesses as discontinued operations. They do not show the planned distribution by CareFusion of $1.4 billion in cash to Cardinal Health in connection with the planned spin-off and the planned use of that cash to reduce Cardinal Health long-term obligations. Certain surgical and exam gloves, drapes and apparel and fluid management businesses that are currently part of the Clinical and Medical Products segment will be retained by Cardinal Health and will continue to be presented within continuing operations.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements do not necessarily reflect the financial position and results of operations that will be presented within Cardinal Health's consolidated financial statements subsequent to the completion of the planned spin-off of its clinical and medical products businesses. In addition, they do not reflect what the financial position and results of operations would have been if Cardinal Health had actually operated without the CareFusion businesses during the periods shown nor are they necessarily indicative of Cardinal Health's future results of operations or financial condition. The assumptions and estimates used and pro forma adjustments derived from such assumptions are based on currently available information, and management believes such assumptions and estimates are reasonable under the circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GAAP
earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations
Operating Cash Flow:
segment revenue minus (segment cost of products sold and segment selling, general and administrative expenses)
Segment Profit:
segment profit divided by segment revenue
Segment Profit Margin:
segment profit divided by total segment profit for all segments
Segment Profit Mix:
receivable days plus days inventory on hand minus payable days
Net Working Capital Days:
NON-GAAP
non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) special items and (2) impairments, (gain)/loss on sale of assets and other, net, each net of tax
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations:
operating earnings excluding (1) special items and (2) impairments, (gain)/loss on sale of assets and other, net
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings:
 
Forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures
Cardinal Health presents non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations (and presentations derived from this financial measure) on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measure is earnings from continuing operations. Cardinal Health is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of this forward-looking non-GAAP measure to the most comparable forward-looking GAAP measure because the company cannot reliably forecast special items, impairments, (gain)/loss on sale of assets and other, net and other spin-off costs, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact the company's future financial results.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements of CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion") consist of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of earnings for the nine months ended March 31, 2009 and an unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet as of March 31, 2009. These unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are subject to revision and/or amendment and should be read in conjunction with the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements contained in the Form 10 registration statement filed by CareFusion and all amendments thereto (including amendments to be filed in the future).
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been derived from CareFusion's historical unaudited interim condensed combined financial statements included above and do not necessarily reflect what CareFusion's financial position and results of operations would have been if it had operated as an independent, publicly-traded company during the period shown. In addition, they are not necessarily indicative of CareFusion's future results of operations or financial condition. The assumptions and estimates used and pro forma adjustments derived from such assumptions are based on currently available information, and management believes such assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of earnings for the nine months ended March 31, 2009 reflect CareFusion's results as if the separation and related transactions described below had occurred as of July 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of March 31, 2009 reflects CareFusion's results as if the separation and related transactions described below had occurred as of such date.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of earnings data for the nine months ended March 31, 2009, and the condensed combined balance sheet data as of March 31, 2009 have been adjusted to give effect to the following transactions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not include certain non-recurring separation costs that CareFusion expects to incur in connection with the separation. Excluded are one-time expenditures estimated at $35 million to $45 million related to employee-related costs, costs to start up certain stand-alone functions and information technology systems, and other one-time transaction-related costs. Management expects to fund these costs through cash from operations, cash on hand and, if
necessary, cash available from one or more credit facilities to be entered into prior to or concurrently with the completion of the separation. Due to the scope and complexity of these activities, the amount of these costs could increase or decrease materially and the timing of incurrence could change.
For the nine months ended March 31, 2009, Cardinal Health allocated to CareFusion general corporate expenses in the amount of $304.9 million. General corporate expenses include, but are not limited to, costs related to finance, legal, information technology, human resources, communications, ethics and compliance, shared services, employee benefits and incentives, and stock-based compensation. Effective with the separation, CareFusion will assume responsibility for all of these functions and related costs and anticipate its costs as a stand-alone entity will be higher than those allocated to it from Cardinal Health. In the first year following the separation, these operating costs are estimated to be approximately $25 million to $30 million higher than the general corporate expenses historically allocated from Cardinal Health. No pro forma adjustments have been made to CareFusion's unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements to reflect the additional costs and expenses described in this paragraph.
 
 
(a) Represents the anticipated impact of a transition services agreement and other commercial agreements which will be in place at the time of the separation. The transition services agreement and other commercial agreements have a pro forma impact of reducing operating earnings by $0.4 million for the nine months ended March 31, 2009. An employee matters agreement, which will also be in place at the time of the separation, is not expected to have a material impact on CareFusion's financial position or results of operations.
(b) Represents the impact of removing the historical results of certain businesses that manufacture and sell surgical and exam gloves, surgical drapes and apparel and fluid management products in the U.S. market included in CareFusion's historical Medical Technologies and Services segment that were historically managed by CareFusion and that will not be transferred to CareFusion in the separation but will instead be retained by Cardinal Health.
(c) Reflects a change to interest expense and amortization of debt issuance costs in connection with debt securities CareFusion expects to issue as part of its anticipated post-separation capital structure. The pro forma impact was based on notes issued at an average interest rate of 8.5% and an average life of 8 years. Management expects to capitalize debt issuance costs of approximately $10.9 million in connection with the debt arrangements described in note (i) below.
(d) Reflects the removal of royalty income and other paid to CareFusion by Cardinal Health under various royalty agreements. After the separation, CareFusion will no longer receive royalty income under these agreements. The intellectual property underlying the royalty income will remain with Cardinal Health upon separation.
(e) Adjusted to reflect the income tax effects of the pro forma adjustments at the applicable tax rates.
(f) Pro forma basic earnings per share and pro forma weighted-average basic shares outstanding are based on the number of Cardinal Health common shares outstanding on March 31, 2009, adjusted for an expected distribution ratio of one share of CareFusion common stock for each Cardinal Health common share. See note (l) below.
(g) Pro forma diluted earnings per share and pro forma weighted-average diluted shares outstanding reflect potential common shares from Cardinal Health equity plans in which our employees participate based on the distribution ratio. While the actual impact on a go-forward basis will depend on various factors, including employees who may change employment from one company to another, management believes the estimate yields a reasonable approximation of the dilutive impact of Cardinal Health equity plans.
(h) Reflects cash funding by Cardinal Health of $230.8 million based upon the anticipated post-separation capital structure that includes all cash residing in CareFusion's international legal entities plus $100 million of domestic cash, less debt issuance costs of $10.9 million described in note (c) above.
(i) Represents a $157.0 million decrease in current maturities of long-term debt and a $70.0 million decrease in long-term debt associated with the expected issuance of $1.4 billion of debt securities or other permitted debt, from which the proceeds will be distributed to Cardinal Health as a dividend. No current maturities are expected from this issuance. This reflects any offering of debt securities or other permitted debt that CareFusion may issue subsequent to any utilization of a senior bridge loan facility. The debt balance at the time of the separation was determined based on internal capital planning and considered the following factors and assumptions: investment grade credit rating, anticipated business plan, operating activities, general economic contingencies, optimal debt levels and desired financing capacity. The amount of debt and the corresponding distribution may be revised based on, among other things, the foregoing factors.
(j) Reflects an adjustment to deferred income taxes and other liabilities of $24.4 million comprised of gross contingent tax liabilities of $32.8 million related to unresolved tax matters that will be retained by Cardinal Health in connection with the separation, offset by a reduction of tax benefits for interest and state taxes of $8.4 million resulting from the relief of the liability, as set forth in the tax matters agreement that will be entered into with Cardinal Health. Additionally, there will be certain indemnifications extended between Cardinal Health and CareFusion in accordance with the terms of the tax matters agreement. At the time of separation, CareFusion will record a liability necessary to recognize the fair value of such indemnifications. Management is currently in the process of determining the impact, if any, on the amount of the liability currently recorded.
(k) Represents the reclassification of Cardinal Health's net investment in CareFusion, which was recorded in parent company equity, into additional paid-in-capital and the balancing entry to reflect the par value of CareFusion's outstanding preferred and common stock.
(l) Represents the issuance of approximately 450 million outstanding shares of common stock at a par value of $0.01 per share. The number of outstanding shares of common stock is based on the number of Cardinal Health common shares outstanding at March 31, 2009, divided by .801. Approximately 360 million shares will be distributed to holders of Cardinal Health common shares, at a ratio of one share of CareFusion common stock for each Cardinal Health common share. Cardinal Health will retain no more than the remaining 19.9% of total shares outstanding or approximately 90 million shares.

Exhibit 99.5
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin,OH 43017
www.cardinalhealth.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contacts:
 
 Cardinal Health, a global provider of products and services that improve the safety and productivity of health care, today announced a 25 percent increase in its regular quarterly dividend to $0.175 per share, or $0.70 per share on an annualized basis.
DUBLIN, Ohio, June 2, 2009
The dividend increase announcement is particularly meaningful in that it comes in advance of the planned spinoff of CareFusion Corporation, the company that is expected to become public from the spinoff of Cardinal Health's clinical and medical products businesses.
The company's previously announced dividend payable on July 15 for shareholders of record on July 1 will be increased to $0.175 per share. The company has steadily increased its quarterly dividend from $0.03 per share in 2005 and has paid a $0.14 per share quarterly dividend since July 15, 2008.
The company is highlighting the announcement at its annual investor conference today, where it also will outline a goal for future dividend increases at or above Cardinal Health's earnings growth rate on a go-forward basis following its planned spinoff of CareFusion. All future dividends are subject to approval by Cardinal Health's board of directors.
The company's focus on dividend expansion creates a predictable and disciplined use of cash to drive shareholder returns and signals confidence and strength in the cash generated by its businesses.
Today's investor conference and corresponding slide presentation are available via live webcast on the investor page at . Presentation slides and the archived webcast will be available on the investor page after the conclusion of the meeting.
cardinalhealth.com
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $91 billion, global company serving the health care industry with products and services that help hospitals, physician offices
Cardinal Health News
Page 2 of 2
 
and pharmacies reduce costs, improve safety, productivity and profitability, and deliver better care to patients. With a focus on making supply chains more efficient, reducing hospital-acquired infections and breaking the cycle of harmful medication errors, Cardinal Health develops market-leading technologies, including Alaris IV pumps, Pyxis automated dispensing and patient identification systems, MedMined electronic infection surveillance service and VIASYS respiratory care products. The company also manufactures medical and surgical products and is one of the largest distributors of pharmaceuticals and medical supplies worldwide. Ranked No. 18 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health employs more than 40,000 people on five continents. More information about the company may be found at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. The most significant of these uncertainties are described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and CareFusion's Form 10 registration statement (including all amendments to those reports and registration statement) and exhibits to those reports and registration statement, and include (but are not limited to) the following: uncertainties related to the deferral in hospital capital spending affecting Cardinal Health's Clinical and Medical Products segment and difficulties in forecasting the exact duration and potential long-term changes in hospital spending patterns; uncertainties regarding the planned spinoff of CareFusion as a new standalone entity, including the timing and terms of any such spinoff and whether such spinoff will be completed as it is subject to a number of conditions, and uncertainties regarding the impact of the planned spinoff on Cardinal Health, CareFusion and the potential market for their respective securities; competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; uncertainties relating to timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation or generic pharmaceutical price deflation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal or administrative proceedings; future actions of regulatory bodies or government authorities relating to Cardinal Health's manufacturing or sale of products and other costs or claims that could arise from its manufacturing, compounding or repackaging operations or from its other services, including uncertainties and costs relating to complying with the amended consent decree entered into with the FDA and implementing the corrective action plan submitted to the FDA pursuant to the amended consent decree; the effects, timing or success of restructuring programs or plans; the costs, difficulties and uncertainties related to the integration of acquired businesses; uncertainties related to the recent disruptions in the financial markets, including uncertainties related to the availability and/or cost of credit and the impact of the financial market disruptions on Cardinal Health's customers and vendors; uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of government health care reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation; with respect to future dividends, the decision by Cardinal Health's board of directors to declare such dividends, which decision will depend on Cardinal Health's surplus, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects at the time any such action is considered; and conditions in the pharmaceutical market and general economic and market conditions. This news release reflects management's views as of June 2, 2009. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.


