FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20090421083544.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 29, 2008, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it intended to separate its clinical and medical products businesses from the remainder of its business, including its healthcare supply chain services business, through a spin-off of a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion"), formed for the purpose of holding the clinical and medical products businesses (the "Planned Spin-Off"). On March 31, 2009, CareFusion filed a Form 10 registration statement for the Planned Spin-Off outlining the Company's plan to spin off at least 80 percent of the outstanding common stock of CareFusion through a pro rata distribution to the Company's shareholders, with the Company retaining the remaining shares. In connection with the Planned Spin-Off, and subject to the satisfaction of the conditions to the Planned Spin-Off outlined in the Form 10 registration statement, the Company intends to cause CareFusion to borrow an amount to be determined, the proceeds of which will be used to pay a special distribution to the Company prior to the Planned Spin-Off.
On April 16, 2009, the Company, Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the lenders, and each of the lenders entered into an Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement and Limited Consent (the "Amendment") relating to the Company's amended and restated unsecured Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of January 24, 2007 (the "Credit Agreement"). The Amendment includes the consent of the administrative agent and lenders to certain indebtedness of CareFusion or its subsidiaries or any of the Company's other subsidiaries incurred in connection with the Planned Spin-Off and among other things:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the Credit Agreement, as amended, the lenders party to the agreement will continue to provide the Company with revolving credit in an amount not to exceed $1.5 billion.
The terms of the Amendment relating to pricing and the consent will not be effective until certain conditions are satisfied, including the delivery by the Company of certain financial information relating to the Company to the administrative agent and certain ratings announcements from each of Standard & Poor's Rating Services and Moody's Investors Service after giving effect to the Planned Spin-Off. The remaining terms of the Amendment will not become effective until the date on which the Company consummates the Planned Spin-Off, including payment of the special distribution by CareFusion to the Company.
In addition to the Amendment described above, on April 17, 2009, the Company entered into a Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. ("SunTrust") under which, in addition to certain banks that are parties to similar existing agreements, SunTrust may act as dealer of the Company's commercial paper issued under the commercial paper program maintained by the Company. Under the program, the Company may from time-to-time issue short-term unsecured notes in an aggregate amount not to exceed $1.5 billion pursuant to an Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement with The Bank of New York Mellon, as previously amended.
From time to time, the financial institutions party to the Amendment or their affiliates have performed, and may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services for the Company and its affiliates, including in connection with the Planned Spin-Off, for which they have received, and will receive, customary fees and expenses. In particular, Bank of America, N.A., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Wachovia Bank, National Association and Goldman, Sachs & Co. or their affiliates serve as dealers under the
 
Company's commercial paper program. In addition, Bank of America, N.A., The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. and The Royal Bank of Scotland or their affiliates participate as purchasers and managing agents under the Company's committed receivables sales facility.
The Amendment and a form of Commercial Paper Dealer Agreement are filed as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to this report, and the foregoing descriptions are qualified by reference to the full text of the agreements set forth in the exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO CREDIT AGREEMENT AND LIMITED CONSENT (this "") dated as of April 16, 2009, is made among CARDINAL HEALTH, INC., an Ohio corporation (the ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement referenced below) (in such capacity, the ""), and each of the Lenders signatory hereto. Each capitalized term used and not otherwise defined in this Amendment has the definition specified in the Credit Agreement described below.
Amendment
Company
Administrative Agent
A. The Company, the Administrative Agent, and the Lenders have entered into that certain Credit Agreement dated as of January 24, 2007 (the ""), pursuant to which the Lenders have made available to the Company a revolving credit facility.
Credit Agreement
B. The Company has advised the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that it plans to (i) cause CareFusion Corporation, a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company and one or more of the Company's other Subsidiaries (CareFusion Corporation and such other Subsidiary(ies), collectively, the "") to borrow up to $2.0 billion in the aggregate of certain Indebtedness the proceeds of which (after deducting expenses) will be used to pay one or more special dividends to the Company (collectively, the "") and (ii) after the payment of such Special Dividend, consummate a separation of the Spin Entity (the "") from the Company, which Spin-off will be achieved through a distribution of at least a majority of the outstanding equity interests in the Spin Entity to the existing shareholders of the Company (together with the Special Dividend, collectively, the "").
Spin Entity
Special Dividend
Spin-off
Transaction
C. The Company has requested that the Administrative Agent and the Lenders consent to certain Indebtedness of the Spin Entity or any of the Company's other Subsidiaries incurred in connection with the Transaction.
D. The Company has also advised the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that it desires to amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement as set forth below.
E. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders are willing to so consent to such Indebtedness and to so amend the Credit Agreement on the terms and conditions contained in this Amendment.
In consideration of the premises and further valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the highest of (a) the Federal Funds Rate
Base Rate
plus
 1
/
2
of 1%, (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "Prime Rate" and (c) to the extent available, the Floor Eurocurrency Rate 1%.
plus
For purposes of this definition of "Base Rate" only, the term "Floor Eurocurrency Rate" shall mean a rate per annum equal to (i) British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the date of determination ( that if such day is not a Business Day (as defined with respect to Eurocurrency Loans denominated in Dollars), the next preceding Business Day) for Dollar deposits being delivered in the London interbank market for a term of one month commencing on such day or (ii) if such published rate is not available at such time for any reason, the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the date of determination in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Floating Rate Loan or Floating Rate Advance being made or maintained by Bank of America and with a term equal to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market at their request at the date and time of determination. For purposes of this definition of "Base Rate", the Floor Eurocurrency Rate shall be determined daily and any change shall take effect on the day of such change.
BBA LIBOR
provided
 
 
"" means Indebtedness incurred by CareFusion Corporation and/or any other Subsidiary(ies) of the Company in an aggregate amount not in excess of $2,000,000,000 the proceeds of which (after deducting expenses) are required by the terms thereof to be used solely to pay one or more special dividends to the Company; provided that (i) neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries (not including CareFusion and its Subsidiaries) shall guarantee such Indebtedness after the consummation of the Spin-off or have any other liability with respect thereto and (ii) such Indebtedness shall be unsecured until after consummation of the Spin-off.
Bridge Indebtedness
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, an amount equal to Consolidated Net Income for such period (a) the following to the extent deducted in calculating such
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
 
Consolidated Net Income: (i) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period, (ii) the provision for Federal, state, local and foreign income taxes payable (current and deferred) by the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period; (iii) depreciation and amortization expense for such period; (iv) non-cash share-based compensation expense for such period; (v) impairment charges, losses on sales of assets and acquired in-process research and development charges for such period, to the extent each is non-cash and non-recurring; (vi) non-recurring transaction costs incurred in connection with the Spin-off and (vii) other non-recurring expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries reducing such Consolidated Net Income which do not represent a cash item in such period or any future period and (b) the following to the extent included in calculating such Consolidated Net Income: (i) Federal, state, local and foreign income tax benefit (current and deferred) of the Company and its Subsidiaries for such period; (ii) non-cash gains on sales of assets for such period and (iii) all non-cash items increasing Consolidated Net Income for such period.
minus
"" means, as of any date of determination, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) the outstanding principal amount of all obligations, whether current or long-term, for borrowed money (including Obligations hereunder) and all obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, loan agreements or other similar instruments, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness, (c) all direct obligations arising under letters of credit (including standby and commercial), bankers' acceptances, bank guaranties, surety bonds and similar instruments, (d) all obligations in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (other than trade accounts payable in the ordinary course of business), (e) Capitalized Lease Obligations, (f) without duplication, all Contingent Obligations with respect to outstanding Indebtedness of the types specified in clauses (a) through (e) above of Persons other than the Company or any Subsidiary, and (g) all Indebtedness of the types referred to in  through  above of any partnership or joint venture (other than a joint venture that is itself a corporation or limited liability company) in which the Company or a Subsidiary is a general partner or joint venturer, unless such Indebtedness is expressly made non-recourse to the Company or such Subsidiary.
Consolidated Funded Indebtedness
clauses (a)
(f)
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (a) all interest, premium payments, debt discount, fees, charges and related expenses of the Company and its Subsidiaries in connection with borrowed money (including capitalized interest) or in connection with the deferred purchase price of assets, in each case to the extent treated as interest in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles, and (b) the portion of rent expense of the Company and its Subsidiaries with respect to such period under Capitalized Leases that is treated as interest in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Interest Charges
"" means, as of any date of
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
 
determination, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four prior fiscal quarters ending on such date (b) Consolidated Interest Charges for such period.
to
"" means, as of any date of determination, the ratio of (a) the sum of (i) Consolidated Funded Indebtedness as of such date (ii) Securitization Obligations as of such date(b) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of the four fiscal quarters most recently ended.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
plus
to
"" means, for any period, for the Company and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles, the net income of the Company and its Subsidiaries (excluding extraordinary gains and extraordinary losses) for that period.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, as of any date of determination, the outstanding principal amount of all obligations evidenced by bonds, notes or similar instruments by any issuing entity established by or related to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with any account receivables sale or securitization transaction entered into by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, the receivables securitization program through that certain Third Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 19, 2008, among Cardinal Health Funding, LLC, Griffin Capital, LLC, each entity signatory thereto as a conduit, each entity signatory thereto as a financial institution, each entity signatory thereto as a managing agent and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch, as the Agent).
Securitization Obligations
"" means one or more special dividends, in an aggregate amount of not less than $1,000,000,000, paid to the Company by the Spin-Entity prior to the consummation of the Spin-off.
Special Dividend
"" means CareFusion Corporation, a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company, together with any other Subsidiary(ies) of the Company that incurs Bridge Indebtedness.
Spin Entity
"" means the separation of the Spin Entity from the Company, which separation will be achieved by a distribution of at least a majority of the outstanding equity interests in CareFusion Corporation to the existing shareholders of the Company and 100% of the equity interests of any other entity that incurs Bridge Indebtedness being owned, directly or indirectly, by CareFusion Corporation at the time of such separation.
Spin-off
"" means the date on which the Company consummates the Spin-off.
Spin-off Date
 
 
6.12 .
Financial Covenants
(a) . The Company shall not permit the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Company to be less than 4.00 to 1.00.
Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio
(b) . The Company shall not permit the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time to be greater than 3.25 to 1.00.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, for all measurement periods including the Spin-Off Date through the end of the fourth fiscal quarter period ending thereafter, the Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio and the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall be calculated eliminating the results of the Spin Entity and its Subsidiaries and giving retroactive pro forma effect to (i) the Transaction and (ii) any debt repurchases or retirements to be consummated with the proceeds of the Special Dividend, but only to the extent that such debt repurchases or retirements actually occur within ninety (90) days after the Spin-off Date.
 
6.13 . Promptly after the same are available (but in any event on or before the Spin-off Date), the Company shall furnish, or shall have furnished, to the Administrative Agent, with sufficient copies for the Lenders: (a) resolutions of the Board of Directors of the Company authorizing the Spin-off as certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Company; (b) evidence as to the consummation of the Spin-off, such evidence to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Company and (c) upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such further instruments, documents and certificates with respect to the Spin-off that may be necessary or advisable in the reasonable opinion of the Administrative Agent in order for the Lenders to comply with all applicable regulatory requirements.
Further Assurances
 
7.3 The breach by the Company of , or .
Section 6.3
6.12
6.13
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be made, executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 4
The Applicable Margin shall be as determined by the matrix below:
 
For the purpose of this Pricing Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings, subject to the final paragraph of this Schedule:
"" exists at any date if, on such date, the Company's Moody's Rating is A2 or better / the Company's S&P Rating is A or better / the Company's Fitch Rating is A or better.
Level I Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, the Company has not qualified for Level I Status / the Company's Moody's Rating is A3 or better / the Company's S&P Rating is A- or better / the Company's Fitch Rating is A- or better.
Level II Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, the Company has not qualified for Level I Status or Level II Status / the Company's Moody's Rating is Baa1 or better / the Company's S&P Rating is BBB+ or better / the Company's Fitch Rating is BBB+ or better.
Level III Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, the Company has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status or Level III Status / the Company's Moody's Rating is Baa2 or better / the Company's S&P Rating is BBB or better / the Company's Fitch Rating is BBB or better.
Level IV Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, the Company has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status or Level IV Status / the Company's Moody's Rating is Baa3 or better / the Company's S&P rating is BBB- or better / the Company's Fitch rating is BBB- or better.
Level V Status
"" exists at any date if, on such date, the Company has not qualified for Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status, Level IV Status or Level V Status.
Level VI Status
The Applicable Margin shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing table based on the Company's Status as determined from its then-current Moody's, S&P and Fitch Ratings. The credit rating in effect on any date for the purposes of this Schedule is that in effect at the close of business on such date. If at any time the Company does not have a rating from at least one of S&P, Moody's or Fitch, Level VI Status shall exist.
In the event that a split occurs between the three (3) ratings, then the following shall apply:
(a) if two (2) of the three (3) ratings established by or deemed to have been established by S&P, Moody's or Fitch fall within the same Level, but one (1) rating falls within a different Level, the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the two (2) ratings that fall within the same Level; and
(b) if all three (3) ratings established by or deemed to have been established by S&P, Moody's or Fitch each fall within a different Level, the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the middle rating of the three (3).
In the event that the Company has only two (2) ratings and a split occurs between these ratings, then the following shall apply:
(a) if the two (2) ratings established by or deemed to have been established by S&P, Moody's or Fitch differ by one Level, the Applicable Margin shall be based upon the higher rating of the two (2); and
(b) if the two (2) ratings established by or deemed to have been established by S&P, Moody's or Fitch differ by more than one Level, the Applicable Margin shall be based upon a rating that would be one Level (with Level I being the highest Level and Level VI being the lowest level) higher than the lower rating.
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Moody's and then in effect with respect to the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
Moody's Rating
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by S&P, and then in effect with respect to the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
S&P Rating
"" means, at any time, the rating issued by Fitch and then in effect with respect to the Company's senior unsecured long-term debt securities without third-party credit enhancement.
Fitch Rating
"" means Level I Status, Level II Status, Level III Status, Level IV Status, Level V Status or Level VI Status.
Status
Date:
                                                                 
Bank of America, N.A.,
as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
This notice serves to confirm that, to the best of my knowledge, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") has observed or performed in all material respects all of the covenants, conditions and agreements contained in the Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of January 24, 2007 (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time) among the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company named therein, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, LC Issuer and Swingline Lender, and the lenders party thereto from time to time.
As of the date hereof, no Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing.
The calculations of the maximum Consolidated Leverage Ratio and the minimum Consolidated Interest Coverage Ratio are attached on Schedule 1.
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
This agreement (the "Agreement") sets forth the understandings between the Issuer and the Dealer, each named on the cover page hereof, in connection with the issuance and sale by the Issuer of its short-term promissory notes (the "Notes") through the Dealer.
Certain terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 6 hereof.
The Addendum to this Agreement, and any Annexes or Exhibits described in this Agreement or such Addendum, are hereby incorporated into this Agreement and made fully a part hereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer represents and warrants that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Issuer covenants and agrees that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) In the event that the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a) and the Dealer notifies the Issuer that it then has Notes it is holding in inventory, the Issuer agrees promptly to supplement or amend the Private Placement Memorandum so that the Private Placement Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and the Issuer shall make such supplement or amendment available to the Dealer.
 
(c) In the event that (i) the Issuer gives the Dealer notice pursuant to Section 4.3(a), (ii) the Dealer does not notify the Issuer that it is then holding Notes in inventory and (iii) the Issuer chooses not to promptly amend or supplement the Private Placement Memorandum in the manner described in clause (b) above, then all solicitations and sales of Notes shall be suspended until such time as the Issuer has so amended or supplemented the Private Placement Memorandum, and made such amendment or supplement available to the Dealer.
(d) Without limiting the generality of Section 4.3(a), the Issuer shall review, amend and supplement the Private Placement Memorandum on a periodic basis, but no less than at least once annually, to incorporate current financial information of the Issuer to the extent necessary to ensure that the information provided in the Private Placement Memorandum is accurate and complete.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Business Day" shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in New York are generally authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Issuer and the Dealer, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date and year first above written.
 
 
Addendum
The following additional clauses shall apply to the Agreement and be deemed a part thereof.
 
 
 
(j) The Issuer hereby agrees that, not later than 15 days after the first sale of Notes as contemplated by this Agreement, it will file with the SEC a notice on Form D in accordance with Rule 503 under the Securities Act and that it will thereafter file such amendments to such notice as Rule 503 may require.
 
 
6.16 "Regulation D" shall mean Regulation D (Rules 501 et seq.) under the Securities Act.
 
3.8 Without limiting any obligation of the Issuer pursuant to this Agreement to provide the Dealer with credit and financial information, the Issuer hereby acknowledges and agrees that the Dealer may share the Company Information and any other information or matters relating to the Issuer or the transactions contemplated hereby with affiliates of the Dealer, including, but not limited to,                             , and that such affiliates may likewise share information relating to the Issuer or such transactions with the Dealer.
 
For the Issuer:
Address: Cardinal Health, Inc., 7000 Cardinal Place, Dublin, Ohio 43017
Attention:
Telephone:
For the Dealer:
Address:
Attention:
Telephone Number:
Fax Number:
 
Exhibit A
Form of Legend for Private Placement Memorandum and Notes
THE NOTES HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "ACT"), OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAW, AND OFFERS AND SALES THEREOF MAY BE MADE ONLY IN COMPLIANCE WITH AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER WILL BE DEEMED TO REPRESENT THAT (I) IT HAS BEEN AFFORDED AN OPPORTUNITY TO INVESTIGATE MATTERS RELATING TO THE ISSUER AND THE NOTES, (II) IT IS NOT ACQUIRING SUCH NOTE WITH A VIEW TO ANY DISTRIBUTION THEREOF AND (III) IT IS EITHER (A)(1) AN INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR OR SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL INVESTOR THAT IS AN ACCREDITED INVESTOR WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 501(a) UNDER THE ACT AND WHICH, IN THE CASE OF AN INDIVIDUAL, (i) POSSESSES SUCH KNOWLEDGE AND EXPERIENCE IN FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS MATTERS THAT HE OR SHE IS CAPABLE OF EVALUATING AND BEARING THE ECONOMIC RISK OF AN INVESTMENT IN THE NOTES AND (ii) HAS NOT LESS THAN $5 MILLION IN INVESTMENTS (AN "INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR" OR "SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR", RESPECTIVELY) AND (2)(i) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT, (ii) A BANK (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(2) OF THE ACT) OR A SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION OR OTHER INSTITUTION (AS DEFINED IN SECTION 3(a)(5)(A) OF THE ACT) ACTING IN ITS INDIVIDUAL OR FIDUCIARY CAPACITY OR (iii) A FIDUCIARY OR AGENT (OTHER THAN A U.S. BANK OR SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION) PURCHASING NOTES FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS SUCH AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR OR SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR; OR (B) A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER ("QIB") WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE ACT THAT IS ACQUIRING NOTES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR ONE OR MORE ACCOUNTS, EACH OF WHICH ACCOUNTS IS A QIB; AND THE PURCHASER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS AWARE THAT THE SELLER MAY RELY UPON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A. BY ITS ACCEPTANCE OF A NOTE, THE PURCHASER THEREOF SHALL ALSO BE DEEMED TO AGREE THAT ANY RESALE OR OTHER TRANSFER THEREOF WILL BE MADE ONLY (A) IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER THE ACT, EITHER (1) TO THE ISSUER OR TO A PLACEMENT AGENT DESIGNATED BY THE ISSUER AS A PLACEMENT AGENT FOR THE NOTES (COLLECTIVELY, THE "PLACEMENT AGENTS"), NONE OF WHICH SHALL HAVE ANY OBLIGATION TO ACQUIRE SUCH NOTE, (2) THROUGH A PLACEMENT AGENT TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR, SOPHISTICATED INDIVIDUAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR OR A QIB, OR (3) TO A QIB IN A TRANSACTION THAT MEETS THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A AND (B) IN MINIMUM AMOUNTS OF $250,000.
 
Exhibit B
Further Provisions Relating to Indemnification
 
 
 
 
Exhibit C
Statement of Terms for Interest  Bearing Commercial Paper Notes of Cardinal Health, Inc.
THE PROVISIONS SET FORTH BELOW ARE QUALIFIED TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE BY THE TRANSACTION SPECIFIC [PRICING] [PRIVATE PLACEMENT MEMORANDUM] SUPPLEMENT (THE "SUPPLEMENT") (IF ANY) SENT TO EACH PURCHASER AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSACTION.
 
(b) "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, executive order or regulation to be closed in New York City and, with respect to LIBOR Notes (as defined below) is also a London Business Day. "London Business Day" means, a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
 
(b) The Supplement sent to each holder of such Note will describe the following terms: (i) whether such Note is a Fixed Rate Note or a Floating Rate Note and whether such Note is an Original Issue Discount Note (as defined below); (ii) the date on which such Note will be issued (the "Issue Date"); (iii) the Stated Maturity Date (as defined below); (iv) if such Note is a Fixed Rate Note, the rate per annum at which such Note will bear interest, if any, and the Interest Payment Dates; (v) if such Note is a Floating Rate Note, the Base Rate, the Index Maturity, the Interest Reset Dates, the Interest Payment Dates and the Spread and/or Spread Multiplier, if any (all as defined below), and any other terms relating to the particular method of calculating the interest rate for such Note; and (vi) any other terms applicable specifically to such Note. "Original Issue Discount Note" means a Note which has a stated redemption price at the Stated Maturity Date that exceeds its Issue Price by more than a specified de minimis amount and which the Supplement indicates will be an "Original Issue Discount Note".
(c) Each Fixed Rate Note will bear interest from its Issue Date at the rate per annum specified in the Supplement until the principal amount thereof is paid or made available for payment. Interest on each Fixed Rate Note will be payable on the dates specified in the Supplement (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Fixed Rate Note) and on the Maturity Date (as defined below). Interest on Fixed Rate Notes will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date of a Fixed Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the required payment of principal, premium, if any, and/or interest will be payable on the next succeeding Business Day, and no additional interest will accrue in respect of the payment made on that next succeeding Business Day.
(d) The interest rate on each Floating Rate Note for each Interest Reset Period (as defined below) will be determined by reference to an interest rate basis (a "Base Rate") plus or minus a number of basis points (one basis point equals one-hundredth of a percentage point) (the "Spread"), if any, and/or multiplied by a certain percentage (the "Spread Multiplier"), if any, until the principal thereof is paid or made available for payment. The Supplement will designate which of the following Base Rates is applicable to the related Floating Rate Note: (a) the CD Rate (a "CD Rate Note"), (b) the Commercial Paper Rate (a "Commercial Paper Rate Note"), (c) the Federal Funds Rate (a "Federal Funds Rate Note"), (d) LIBOR (a "LIBOR Note"), (e) the Prime Rate (a "Prime Rate Note"), (f) the Treasury Rate (a "Treasury Rate Note") or (g) such other Base Rate as may be specified in such Supplement.
The rate of interest on each Floating Rate Note will be reset daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly or semi-annually (the "Interest Reset Period"). The date or dates on which interest will be reset (each an "Interest Reset Date") will be, unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, in the case of Floating Rate Notes which reset daily, each Business Day, in the case of Floating Rate Notes (other than Treasury Rate Notes) that reset weekly, the Wednesday of each week; in the case of Treasury Rate Notes that reset weekly, the Tuesday of each week; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset monthly, the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset quarterly, the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes that reset semiannually, the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. If any Interest Reset Date for any Floating Rate Note is not a Business Day, such Interest Reset Date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Reset Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. Interest on each Floating Rate Note will be payable monthly, quarterly or semiannually (the "Interest Payment Period") and on the Maturity Date. Unless otherwise specified in the Supplement, and except as provided below, the date or dates on which interest will be payable (each an "Interest Payment Date" for a Floating Rate Note) will be, in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a monthly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of each month; in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a quarterly Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of March, June, September and December; and in the case of Floating Rate Notes with a semiannual Interest Payment Period, on the third Wednesday of the two months specified in the Supplement. In addition, the Maturity Date will also be an Interest Payment Date.
If any Interest Payment Date for any Floating Rate Note (other than an Interest Payment Date occurring on the Maturity Date) would otherwise be a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day, except that in the case of a LIBOR Note, if such Business Day is in the next succeeding calendar month, such Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. If the Maturity Date of a Floating Rate Note falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the payment of principal and interest will be made on the next succeeding Business Day, and no interest on such payment shall accrue for the period from and after such maturity.
Interest payments on each Interest Payment Date for Floating Rate Notes will include accrued interest from and including the Issue Date or from and including the last date in respect of which interest has been paid, as the case may be, to, but excluding, such Interest Payment Date. On the Maturity Date, the
 
interest payable on a Floating Rate Note will include interest accrued to, but excluding, the Maturity Date. Accrued interest will be calculated by multiplying the principal amount of a Floating Rate Note by an accrued interest factor. This accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factors calculated for each day in the period for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor (expressed as a decimal) for each such day will be computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to such day by 360, in the cases where the Base Rate is the CD Rate, Commercial Paper Rate, Federal Funds Rate, LIBOR or Prime Rate, or by the actual number of days in the year, in the case where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate. The interest rate in effect on each day will be (i) if such day is an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date (as defined below) pertaining to such Interest Reset Date, or (ii) if such day is not an Interest Reset Date, the interest rate with respect to the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the next preceding Interest Reset Date, subject in either case to any adjustment by a Spread and/or a Spread Multiplier.
The "Interest Determination Date" where the Base Rate is the CD Rate or the Commercial Paper Rate will be the second Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Federal Funds Rate or the Prime Rate will be the Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is LIBOR will be the second London Business Day next preceding an Interest Reset Date. The Interest Determination Date where the Base Rate is the Treasury Rate will be the day of the week in which such Interest Reset Date falls when Treasury Bills are normally auctioned. Treasury Bills are normally sold at auction on Monday of each week, unless that day is a legal holiday, in which case the auction is held on the following Tuesday or the preceding Friday. If an auction is so held on the preceding Friday, such Friday will be the Interest Determination Date pertaining to the Interest Reset Date occurring in the next succeeding week.
The "Index Maturity" is the period to maturity of the instrument or obligation from which the applicable Base Rate is calculated.
The "Calculation Date," where applicable, shall be the earlier of (i) the tenth calendar day following the applicable Interest Determination Date or (ii) the Business Day preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date or Maturity Date.
All times referred to herein reflect New York City time, unless otherwise specified.
The Issuer shall specify in writing to the Issuing and Paying Agent which party will be the calculation agent (the "Calculation Agent") with respect to the Floating Rate Notes. The Calculation Agent will provide the interest rate then in effect and, if determined, the interest rate which will become effective on the next Interest Reset Date with respect to such Floating Rate Note to the Issuing and Paying Agent as soon as the interest rate with respect to such Floating Rate Note has been determined and as soon as practicable after any change in such interest rate.
All percentages resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point, with five-one millionths of a percentage point rounded upwards. For example, 9.876545% (or .09876545) would be rounded to 9.87655% (or .0987655). All dollar amounts used in or resulting from any calculation on Floating Rate Notes will be rounded, in the case of U.S. dollars, to the nearest cent or, in the case of a foreign currency, to the nearest unit (with one-half cent or unit being rounded upwards).
 
CD Rate Notes
"CD Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for negotiable certificates of deposit having the Index Maturity as published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "FRB") in "Statistical Release H.15(519), Selected Interest Rates" or any successor publication of the FRB ("H.15(519)") under the heading "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the CD Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date set forth in the daily update of H.15(519), available through the world wide website of the FRB at http://www.federalreserve.gov/releases/h15/Update, or any successor site or publication or other recognized electronic source used for the purpose of displaying the applicable rate ("H.15 Daily Update") under the caption "CDs (Secondary Market)".
If such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the CD Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the secondary market offered rates as of 10:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading nonbank dealers
1
in negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for negotiable U.S. dollar certificates of deposit of major United States money center banks of the highest credit standing in the market for negotiable certificates of deposit with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity in the denomination of $5,000,000.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as set forth above, the CD Rate will remain the CD Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
Commercial Paper Rate Notes
"Commercial Paper Rate" means the Money Market Yield (calculated as described below) of the rate on any Interest Determination Date for commercial paper having the Index Maturity, as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Commercial Paper Rate will be the Money Market Yield of the rate on such Interest Determination Date for commercial paper of the Index Maturity as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Commercial Paper-Nonfinancial".
If by 3:00 p.m. on such Calculation Date such rate is not published in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Commercial Paper Rate to be the Money Market Yield of the arithmetic mean of the offered rates as of 11:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date of three leading dealers of U.S. dollar commercial paper in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent for commercial paper of the Index Maturity placed for an industrial issuer whose bond rating is "AA," or the equivalent, from a nationally recognized statistical rating organization.
If the dealers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Commercial Paper Rate with respect to such Interest Determination Date will remain the Commercial Paper Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
 
 
"Money Market Yield" will be a yield calculated in accordance with the following formula:
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for commercial paper quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the interest period for which interest is being calculated.
Federal Funds Rate Notes
"Federal Funds Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date for federal funds as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Federal Funds (Effective)" and displayed on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 120 (or any other page as may replace the specified page on that service) ("Telerate Page 120").
If the above rate does not appear on Telerate Page 120 or is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Federal Funds Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update under the heading "Federal Funds/(Effective)".
If such rate is not published as described above by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Federal Funds Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates for the last transaction in overnight U.S. dollar federal funds arranged by each of three leading brokers of Federal Funds transactions in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent prior to 9:00 a.m. on such Interest Determination Date.
If the brokers selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned above, the Federal Funds Rate will remain the Federal Funds Rate then in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
LIBOR Notes
The London Interbank offered rate ("LIBOR") means, with respect to any Interest Determination Date, the rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having the Index Maturity that appears on the Designated LIBOR Page as of 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date.
If no rate appears, LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest Determination Date at which deposits in U.S. dollars are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in such market selected by the Calculation Agent for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in principal amount equal to an amount that in the Calculation Agent's judgment is representative for a single transaction in U.S. dollars in such market at such time (a "Representative Amount"). The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such interest period will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted at approximately 11:00 a.m., in New York City, on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City, selected by the Calculation Agent, for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks, for a term equal to the Index Maturity and in a Representative Amount; provided, however, that if fewer than three banks so selected by the Calculation Agent are providing such quotations, the then existing LIBOR rate will remain in effect for such Interest Payment Period.
 
"Designated LIBOR Page" means the display designated as page "3750" on Moneyline Telerate (or such other page as may replace the 3750 page on that service or such other service or services as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purposes of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits).
Prime Rate Notes
"Prime Rate" means the rate on any Interest Determination Date as published in H.15(519) under the heading "Bank Prime Loan".
If the above rate is not published in H.15(519) prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, then the Prime Rate will be the rate on such Interest Determination Date as published in H.15 Daily Update opposite the caption "Bank Prime Loan".
If the rate is not published prior to 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date in either H.15(519) or H.15 Daily Update, then the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the rates of interest publicly announced by each bank that appears on the Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page (as defined below) as such bank's prime rate or base lending rate as of 11:00 a.m., on that Interest Determination Date.
If fewer than four such rates referred to above are so published by 3:00 p.m. on the Calculation Date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Prime Rate to be the arithmetic mean of the prime rates or base lending rates quoted on the basis of the actual number of days in the year divided by 360 as of the close of business on such Interest Determination Date by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent.
If the banks selected are not quoting as mentioned above, the Prime Rate will remain the Prime Rate in effect on such Interest Determination Date.
"Reuters Screen US PRIME1 Page" means the display designated as page "US PRIME1" on the Reuters Monitor Money Rates Service (or such other page as may replace the US PRIME1 page on that service for the purpose of displaying prime rates or base lending rates of major United States banks).
Treasury Rate Notes
"Treasury Rate" means:
(1) the rate from the auction held on the Interest Determination Date (the "Auction") of direct obligations of the United States ("Treasury Bills") having the Index Maturity specified in the
 
Supplement under the caption "INVESTMENT RATE" on the display on Moneyline Telerate (or any successor service) on page 56 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 56") or page 57 (or any other page as may replace that page on that service) ("Telerate Page 57"), or
(2) if the rate referred to in clause (1) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield (as defined below) of the rate for the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Auction High", or
(3) if the rate referred to in clause (2) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the auction rate of the applicable Treasury Bills as announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or
(4) if the rate referred to in clause (3) is not so announced by the United States Department of the Treasury, or if the Auction is not held, the Bond Equivalent Yield of the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15(519) under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(5) if the rate referred to in clause (4) not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date of the applicable Treasury Bills as published in H.15 Daily Update, under the caption "U.S. Government Securities/Treasury Bills/Secondary Market", or
(6) if the rate referred to in clause (5) is not so published by 3:00 p.m. on the related Calculation Date, the rate on the particular Interest Determination Date calculated by the Calculation Agent as the Bond Equivalent Yield of the arithmetic mean of the secondary market bid rates, as of approximately 3:30 p.m. on that Interest Determination Date, of three primary United States government securities dealers selected by the Calculation Agent, for the issue of Treasury Bills with a remaining maturity closest to the Index Maturity specified in the Supplement, or
(7) if the dealers so selected by the Calculation Agent are not quoting as mentioned in clause (6), the Treasury Rate in effect on the particular Interest Determination Date.
"Bond Equivalent Yield" means a yield (expressed as a percentage) calculated in accordance with the following formula:
 
where "D" refers to the applicable per annum rate for Treasury Bills quoted on a bank discount basis and expressed as a decimal, "N" refers to 365 or 366, as the case may be, and "M" refers to the actual number of days in the applicable Interest Reset Period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


