FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20101028070534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2010, Cardinal Health, Inc. ("Cardinal Health" or the "Company") issued a news release announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding Cardinal Health's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:30 a.m. EDT on October 28, 2010, Cardinal Health's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter ended September 30, 2010 and outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2011. The slide presentation for the conference call will be available on the Investors page at www.cardinalhealth.com. An audio replay of the conference call also will be available on the Investors page at www.cardinalhealth.com.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 Cardinal Health today reported fiscal 2011 first-quarter revenue of $24.4 billion and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations of $0.64, up 19 percent versus last year, driven by 42 percent segment profit growth within its Pharmaceutical Segment.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Oct. 28, 2010
"Our first quarter was an excellent start to the year," said George Barrett, chairman and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. "These results reflect the progress we have made in our Pharmaceutical Segment, specifically in the work we have been doing to improve margins across that segment by strengthening our generics programs and expanding our retail independent pharmacy customer base. Our Medical Segment declined as we had expected, largely as a result of unique events in the prior-year period and commodity price increases. Although medical procedures remained somewhat soft during the period, we continue to make great progress in our program to position our medical businesses to serve the needs of these evolving markets."
Q1 FY11 SUMMARY
 
First-quarter GAAP earnings from continuing operations were $294 million or $0.84 per share. GAAP results include a positive $0.21 per share net, after-tax contribution from the gain on the sale of CareFusion stock. As previously announced, Cardinal Health, during the quarter, sold the remaining 30.5 million shares of common stock of CareFusion Corp. that it had retained from the
 
Cardinal Health
Page 2
 
spinoff. The aggregate proceeds from this sale were $705.9 million in cash. The transaction resulted in approximately $75 million in GAAP earnings with no associated income tax expense. GAAP results for the prior-year period were negatively impacted by certain items relating to the CareFusion spinoff.
SEGMENT RESULTS
Pharmaceutical Segment
Revenue for the Pharmaceutical Segment declined 1 percent to $22.3 billion as a result of reduced sales to existing bulk customers, previously disclosed contract terminations of two large-revenue customers and the effect on revenue mix from the conversion of certain brand pharmaceuticals to generics. Increased sales to retail independent pharmacies and other direct-store-door customers partially offset the revenue decline. Generic sales were up 19 percent, with sales under our SOURCE
SM
Generics program up 34 percent. Segment profit increased 42 percent to $296 million primarily driven by strong generic performance, including the impact of new generic launches, and solid performance under branded manufacturer agreements, including the impact of branded pharmaceutical inflation. A change in estimated reserves related to distribution service agreement fees receivable from certain manufacturers also contributed $9 million to segment profit for the quarter.
 
Medical Segment
Revenue for the Medical Segment decreased 3 percent to $2.2 billion. As previously disclosed, the prior period was positively impacted by the immediate revenue recognition of $51 million for international sales to CareFusion as a result of the spinoff. The unusually strong and early flu season in fiscal 2010 also contributed to the negative year-over-year comparison. As expected, segment profit declined for the quarter, down 28 percent to $83 million, driven by the combined prior-year impact of the CareFusion revenue recognition benefit and the unusual flu season, as well as the impact of commodity price increases on the current period's cost of products sold.
 
FISCAL 2011 OUTLOOK
"Given the strong start to the year for our Pharmaceutical Segment and the progress we project on various company-wide initiatives, we have become more confident in achieving the higher end of our non-GAAP diluted EPS guidance range of $2.38 to $2.48," Barrett said.
 
Cardinal Health
Page 3
 
 
ADDITIONAL FIRST-QUARTER AND RECENT HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL
Cardinal Health will host a webcast and conference call today at 8:30 a.m. EDT to discuss first-quarter results and its future outlook. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investor page at or dial 617-213-4848 passcode 23771725. Presentation slides and an audio replay will be archived on the website after the conclusion of the meeting. The audio replay will also be available until Nov. 1 by dialing 617-801-6888, passcode 65259301.
cardinalhealth.com/investors
UPCOMING EVENTS
 
 
 
 
At these events, Cardinal Health executives will discuss the company's diverse products and services, company performance and strategies for continued growth. To access more details and live webcasts of these events, including remarks, go to the Investors page at .
cardinalhealth.com
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $99 billion that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care. As the business behind health care, Cardinal Health helps , , and focus on patient care while reducing costs, improving efficiency and quality, and increasing profitability. Cardinal Health is an essential link in the health care supply chain, providing and to more than 60,000 locations each day. The company is also a leading manufacturer of , including , and products. In addition, the company supports the growing diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to and operating the nation's largest that dispense products to aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease. Ranked #17 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health worldwide. More information about the company may be found at .
health care services company
pharmacies
hospitals
ambulatory surgery centers
physician offices
pharmaceuticals
medical products
medical and surgical products
gloves
surgical apparel
fluid management
clinical laboratories
network of radiopharmacies
employs more than 30,000 people
cardinalhealth.com
 
Cardinal Health
Page 4
 
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures and their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is provided in the attached tables and at .
cardinalhealth.com
Cardinal Health uses its website as a channel of distribution for material company information. Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cardinal Health is routinely posted and accessible on the Investors page at .
cardinalhealth.com
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements, which are not based on historical facts, addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "should," "could," "would," "project," "continue," and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and tax accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties include (but are not limited to) uncertainties related to demand for Cardinal Health's products and services; uncertainties and risks regarding CareFusion's remaining obligations to Cardinal Health; uncertainties due to government health care reform including the recently enacted federal health care reform legislation; competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; the timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation or generic pharmaceutical price deflation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and/or services; the results, consequences, effects or timing of any inquiry or investigation by any regulatory authority or any legal or administrative proceedings; uncertainties regarding the ability to successfully integrate and grow acquired businesses; and the effects of disruptions in the financial markets, including uncertainties related to the availability and/or cost of credit on Cardinal Health's customers and vendors. In addition, Cardinal Health is subject to additional risks and uncertainties described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports. This news release reflects management's views as of Oct. 28, 2010. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Refer to the GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the non-GAAP balances.
 
 
 
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $24,438 million, which included total segment revenue of $24,442 million and Corporate revenue of $(4) million. Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2009 was $24,781 million, which included total segment revenue of $24,799 million and Corporate revenue of $(18) million. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2010 were $364 million, which included total segment profit of $379 million and Corporate loss of $(15) million. Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2009 were $240 million, which included total segment profit of $323 million and Corporate loss of $(83) million. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (credits)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Refer to the GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation for non-GAAP calculations. Refer to DSO, DIOH and DPO below for definitions and calculation.
 
 
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations (and presentations derived from these financial measures, including per share calculations) on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures are earnings from continuing operations and effective tax rate from continuing operations. We are unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because we cannot reliably forecast restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (credits)/charges, net, and other spin-off costs, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our future financial results.
 
 
inventory divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Inventory on Hand:
 
accounts payable divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Payable Outstanding:
 
GAAP
long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings
Debt:
debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Debt to Total Capital:
earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
provision for income taxes divided by earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations
Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations:
realized gains from the sale of our ownership of CareFusion common stock retained in connection with the spin-off
Gain on Sale of CareFusion Stock:
costs and tax charges incurred in connection with our spin-off of CareFusion that are not included in restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (credits)/charges, net. Other spin-off costs include, among other things, the loss on extinguishment of debt and the income tax charge related to the anticipated repatriation of a portion of cash loaned to our entities within the United States
Other Spin-Off Costs:
trade receivables, net divided by (monthly revenue divided by 30 days)
Days Sales Outstanding:
segment revenue minus (segment cost of products sold and segment distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses)
Segment Profit:
segment profit divided by segment revenue
Segment Profit Margin:
segment profit divided by total segment profit for all segments
Segment Profit Mix:
annualized net earnings divided by average shareholders' equity
Return on Equity:
segment revenue divided by total segment revenue for all segments
Revenue Mix:
NON-GAAP
net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Net Debt to Capital:
debt minus (cash and equivalents)
Net Debt:
non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
(current period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations minus prior period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations) divided by prior period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations Growth Rate:
earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (credits)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations:
(current period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations minus prior period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations) divided by prior period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations Growth Rate:
(provision for income taxes adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (credits)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock) divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (credits)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock)
Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations:
operating earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation credits/(charges), net and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs included within distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings:
(current period non-GAAP operating earnings minus prior period non-GAAP operating earnings) divided by prior period non-GAAP operating earnings
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings Growth Rate:
(annualized current period net earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (credits)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs, (6) CareFusion net earnings in discontinued operations and (7) gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax) divided by average shareholders' equity adjusted for the $3.7 billion non-cash dividend issued in connection with the spin-off
Non-GAAP Return on Equity:

 
Exhibit 99.2
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company's") earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance and provides them to investors because the measures exclude items and charges that management believes are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of the Company's products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions or, in the case of litigation credits and charges, activities that may have occurred in prior or multiple periods, in each case without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. As discussed below, following the August 31, 2009 spin-off of CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion") through a pro rata distribution to its shareholders of approximately 81% of the shares of CareFusion common stock (the "Spin-Off"), some of these non-GAAP financial measures exclude net earnings of CareFusion included in discontinued operations and other items associated with the Spin-Off. The purpose for these adjustments is to provide for better comparability between periods by removing the impact of CareFusion on all periods. By doing so, management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information regarding the historical trend of these measures as they relate to the remaining operations of the Company.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. Many of the charges and other items excluded in the calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may be recurring items and, with the exception of asset impairments, litigation gains and gain on sale of CareFusion stock, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Accordingly, these non-GAAP measures should be evaluated in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures because the non-GAAP measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the comparable GAAP measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The Company has provided reconciliations of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable historical GAAP financial measures in the earnings release. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures also are included in the earnings release.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP operating earnings" and presentations derived from this measure. This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (credits)/charges, net, and Other Spin-Off Costs included within distribution, selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A Expense").
Non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation).
The Company classifies a restructuring activity as a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving manufacturing of a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. A liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the period in which it is incurred except for a liability for a one-time termination benefit which is recognized over its future service period.
The Company classifies costs incurred in connection with acquisitions as acquisition related costs. The costs consist primarily of transaction costs, integration costs and changes in the fair value of contingent
payments (earn-outs). Acquisition transaction costs are incurred during the initial evaluation of a potential targeted acquisition and primarily relate to costs to analyze, negotiate and consummate the transactions as well as financial and legal due diligence activities. Integration activities are costs incurred to combine the operations of an acquired enterprise into the Company's operations.
Asset impairments and losses from the sale of assets not eligible to be classified as discontinued operations are classified within impairments and loss on sale of assets within the consolidated statements of earnings.
Estimated loss contingencies related to litigation and regulatory matters and income from favorable resolution of legal and regulatory matters are recognized in litigation (credits)/charges, net within the consolidated statements of earnings.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations" and presentations derived from this measure. This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, and litigation (credits)/charges, net, each net of tax. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax. Other Spin-Off Costs excluded from this non-GAAP financial measure include the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 loss on extinguishment of debt, the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 tax expense related to the anticipated repatriation of a portion of cash loaned to the Company's entities within the United States, and other fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 costs included within SG&A Expense and other (income)/expense, net on the consolidated statement of earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2010. Gains on sale of CareFusion stock relate to the Company's sales of the shares of CareFusion common stock that the Company retained in the Spin-Off.
Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and presentations derived from it (per share and growth rate calculations).
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP return on equity." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (credits)/charges, net, each net of tax, from the numerator of the calculation. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP financial measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax, from the numerator of the calculation.
Non-GAAP return on equity.
In addition to the adjustments described above, the Company is excluding the net earnings of CareFusion included in discontinued operations from adjusted net earnings in the calculation of non-GAAP return on equity for all periods presented. Also, the Company is excluding the non-cash dividend from average shareholders' equity in the calculation of non-GAAP return on equity to remove CareFusion equity for all periods presented.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (credits)/charges, net from the denominator of the calculation and the tax effect of restructuring and employee severance, acquisition related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (credits)/charges, net from the numerator of the calculation. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP financial measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and gain on sale of CareFusion stock from the denominator of the calculation and the tax effect of Other Spin-Off Costs, including the tax expense related to the anticipated repatriation of a portion of cash loaned to the Company's entities within the United States, and gain on sale of CareFusion stock from the numerator of the calculation.
Non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "net debt to capital,"
Net debt to capital.
 
which is net debt divided by capital (net debt plus total shareholders' equity). "Net debt," also a non-GAAP financial measure, is debt (the most comparable GAAP measure, calculated as long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings) minus cash and equivalents. Management believes that net debt to capital is an important measure to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet. With respect to net debt, cash and equivalents are subtracted from the GAAP measure because they could be used to reduce the Company's debt obligations. A limitation associated with using net debt is that it subtracts cash and equivalents and therefore may imply that there is less Company debt than the most comparable GAAP measure indicates. Management believes that investors may find it useful to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet.
 


