FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20101026154535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2010, Cardinal Health, Inc. issued a statement on market speculation. A copy of the statement is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 Cardinal Health today issued the following statement in response to published market speculation:
DUBLIN, Ohio, Oct. 26, 2010
While it is our longstanding practice not to respond to market rumors and speculation, we are making an exception in this limited situation. Cardinal Health is not in discussions with any party regarding an acquisition of Cardinal Health. We do not expect to have further comment on this matter.
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $99 billion that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care. As the business behind health care, Cardinal Health helps , , and focus on patient care while reducing costs, improving efficiency and quality, and increasing profitability. Cardinal Health is an essential link in the health care supply chain, providing and to more than 60,000 locations each day. The company is also a leading manufacturer of , including , and products. In addition, the company supports the growing diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to and operating the nation's largest n that dispense products to aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease. Ranked #17 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health worldwide. More information about the company may be found at .
health care services company
pharmacies
hospitals
ambulatory surgery centers
physician offices
pharmaceuticals
medical products
medical and surgical products
gloves
surgical apparel
fluid management
clinical laboratories
etwork of radiopharmacies
employs more than 30,000 people
cardinalhealth.com
 


