FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20110804070441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 4, 2011, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2011. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
 
(d)
On August 3, 2011, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Company elected David P. King to the Board, effective September 1, 2011, to serve until the Company's 2011 Annual Meeting and until his successor is elected and qualified. The committee(s) of the Board on which Mr. King initially will serve have not been determined as of the time of this filing on Form 8-K. Mr. King serves as Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, an independent clinical laboratory company.
Mr. King will participate in the standard non-management director compensation arrangements described in the Company's 2010 proxy statement, including an initial equity grant on the effective date of his election to the Board. Accordingly, Mr. King will receive restricted share units ("RSUs") equal to $120,000 divided by the closing share price of the Company's common shares on the New York Stock Exchange on the grant date. The RSUs will vest in full one year from grant date and will be settled in the Company's common shares.
(e)
On August 2, 2011, the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee") approved a performance share unit ("PSU") program and form of PSU Agreement that sets forth the terms of PSUs that may be granted under the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The form of PSU Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report.
New PSU Program
On August 2, 2011, the Committee approved a change to the Company's long-term incentive award mix, introducing three-year PSUs to incent and retain the Company's executives and further align their interests with those of the Company's shareholders; to further align with the pay practices of the Company's Comparator Group companies; and to respond to the views of the Company's shareholders. For fiscal 2012, senior executives, including all of the Company's named executive officers, will receive one-third of their long-term incentive compensation awards in the form of stock options, one-third in RSUs and one-third in PSUs. For fiscal 2011, named executive officers received 65% of long-term incentive compensation in the form of stock options and 35% in the form of RSUs.
For the fiscal 2012 PSU grants, the Committee established performance goals based on (a) compound annual growth rate in non-GAAP earnings per share and (b) dividend yield over the performance period. These two measures are key components of an internal operational total shareholder return formula that the Company believes has a strong correlation to market total shareholder return (i.e., share price appreciation plus dividends).
 
At the end of the performance period, an executive can receive shares representing 50% of his or her target PSU grant if the threshold level of the performance goals and criteria is attained, and can receive shares representing up to 200% of his or her target PSU grant for above-target performance. No shares may be issued under the PSUs if the threshold performance levels are not satisfied. To facilitate transition to PSU grants, the Committee established both a two-year and a three-year performance period for the initial grant of PSUs. Under this arrangement, 40% of the PSUs will be eligible for vesting at the end of the second year following the grant date and 60% of PSUs will be eligible for vesting at the end of the third year following the grant date.
Description of PSU Agreement
Under the PSU Agreement approved by the Committee, PSUs will be settled following the end of a performance period by the issuance of a number of the Company's common shares, which may be a fraction or multiple of the number of PSUs subject to an award, subject to both continued employment by the Company and the achievement of performance goals established by the Committee (which may vary from award to award). For designated employees, the Committee also may establish an additional performance criterion or criteria in order to provide for the deductibility of such awards under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
The PSU Agreement provides for full vesting of PSUs if an awardee dies or is disabled at least six months after the grant date and pro-rata vesting of PSUs if the awardee retires at least six months after the grant date, based in each case on actual performance during the full performance period. In the event of a change of control, the PSUs for each performance period will immediately vest and be paid in an amount equal to the number of PSUs at a payout level based on: (i) actual performance up to the most recent date prior to the change of control on which the achievement of the performance goals can be determined; and (ii) if the change of control occurs prior to the end of a performance period, the projected performance for the remainder of the performance period. If an awardee is involuntarily terminated without cause between the end of the performance period and the payment date, he or she will receive vesting based on actual performance during the performance period. Except as described above or as the Committee at any time may otherwise determine, an awardee will forfeit the right to any PSUs if he or she terminates employment before the payment date.
Under the PSU Agreement, the Company has the authority to require repayment, or to subject outstanding awards to forfeiture, in certain instances of misconduct. In addition, the PSU Agreement will be administered in compliance with the clawback provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The plan administrator also may, in its discretion, require repayment if the amount of the award was calculated based upon the achievement of financial results that were subsequently the subject of a restatement of the Company's financial statements, the awardee engaged in misconduct that caused or contributed to the need for such restatement, and the amount payable to the awardee would have been lower than the amount actually paid to the awardee had the financial results been properly reported.
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of PSU Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time on August 4, 2011, Cardinal Health's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 and outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The slide presentation for the conference call will be available on the Investors page at . An audio replay of the conference call also will be available on the Investors page at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
www.cardinalhealth.com
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Performance Share Units Agreement (this "Agreement") is entered into in Franklin County, Ohio. On [grant date] (the "Grant Date"), Cardinal Health, Inc, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"), has awarded to [employee name] ("Awardee") [target # of units] performance share units (the "Performance Share Units" or "Award"). The Performance Share Units have been granted pursuant to the Cardinal Health, Inc. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended to date (the "Plan"), and are subject to all provisions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and are subject to the provisions of this Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement which are not specifically defined have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
1. .
Vesting of Performance Share Units
(a) . Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, zero to [maximum percentage] of the Performance Share Units will vest when the Administrator certifies the payout level ("Payout Level") as a result of achievement of: (i) specific performance criteria (the "Performance Goals") for a performance period ("Performance Period") set forth in attached hereto; and (ii) Qualifying Performance Criteria set by the Administrator for a Performance Period, if the Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
General
Exhibit A
(b) . Notwithstanding Paragraph 1(a) above, in the event of a Change of Control (but if Awardee makes an election to defer pursuant to Treas. Reg.  1.409A-2(a)(5) prior to the Grant Date and such Change of Control occurs within 12 months from the Grant Date, only if such Change of Control constitutes a change of control event as defined under Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(5)), the Performance Share Units for each Performance Period will immediately vest and be paid in an amount equal to the number of Performance Share Units at a Payout Level based on: (i) actual performance up to the most recent date prior to the Change of Control on which the achievement of the Performance Goals can be determined by the Administrator; and (ii) if the Change of Control occurs prior to the completion of a Performance Period, the projected performance for each Performance Period, if any, as determined by the Administrator.
Change of Control
2. . The Performance Share Units are not transferable.
Transferability
3. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . Except as set forth in this Paragraph 3, if a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the payment date in Paragraph 5 (the "Payment Date"), any Performance Share Units allocated to that Performance Period, whether vested or unvested, shall be forfeited by Awardee.
General
(b) . If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the Payment Date by reason of Awardee's death or Disability (but if Awardee makes an election to defer pursuant to Treas.  1.409A-2(a)(5) prior to the Grant Date and if such Disability occurs within 12 months from the Grant Date, only if such Disability constitutes a disability condition as defined under Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(4)), but at least 6 months after the Grant Date, then the Performance Share Units for each Performance Period will not be forfeited but will vest and be paid as if Awardee had remained employed through the Payment Date.
Death or Disability
(c) . If a Termination of Employment occurs prior to the Payment Date by reason of Awardee's Retirement, but at least 6 months after the Grant Date, then the Performance Share Units for each Performance Period will vest and be paid in an amount equal to the number of Performance Share Units that Awardee would have received if Awardee had remained employed through the Payment Date
Retirement
multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Performance Period up to the date of such Termination of Employment, and the denominator of which is the total number of days in such Performance Period.
(d) . If a Termination of Employment by the Cardinal Group (as defined below), other than a Termination for Cause, occurs after the end of a Performance Period but prior to the Payment Date, then the Performance Share Units for the applicable Performance Period will not be forfeited but will vest and be paid as if Awardee had remained employed through the Payment Date.
Involuntary Termination
4. . This Agreement contains special forfeiture and repayment rules intended to encourage conduct that protects the Company's and its Affiliates' (collectively, the "Cardinal Group's") legitimate business assets and discourage conduct that threatens or harms those assets. The Company does not intend to have the benefits of this Agreement reward or subsidize conduct detrimental to the Company, and therefore will require the forfeiture of the benefits offered under this Agreement and the repayment of gains obtained from this Agreement, according to the rules specified below. Activities that trigger the forfeiture and repayment rules are divided into two categories: Misconduct and Competitor Conduct.
Special Forfeiture and Repayment Rules
(a) . During employment with the Cardinal Group and for three years after the Termination of Employment for any reason, Awardee agrees not to engage in Misconduct. If Awardee engages in Misconduct during employment or within three years after the Termination of Employment for any reason, then
Misconduct
(i) Awardee immediately forfeits the Performance Share Units that have not yet vested or that vested at any time within three years prior to the Misconduct and have not yet been paid pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof, and those forfeited Performance Share Units automatically terminate, and
(ii) Awardee shall, within 30 days following written notice from the Company, pay to the Company in cash an amount equal to: (A) the gross gain to the Awardee resulting from the payment of the Performance Share Units pursuant to Paragraph 5 hereof that had vested at any time within three years prior to the date the Misconduct first occurred (as determined by the Administrator) less (B) $1.00. The gross gain is the market value of the Shares represented by the Performance Share Units on the Payment Date.
As used in this Agreement, "" means
Misconduct
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) . If Awardee chooses to engage in Competitor Conduct during employment or within one year after the Termination of Employment for any reason, then
Competitor Conduct
 
 
As used in this Agreement, "" means accepting employment with, or directly or indirectly providing services to, a Competitor in the United States. If Awardee has a Termination of Employment and Awardee's responsibilities to the Cardinal Group were limited to a specific territory or territories within or outside the United States during the 24 months prior to the Termination of Employment, then Competitor Conduct is limited to that specific territory or territories. A "" means any person or business that competes with the products or services provided by a member of the Cardinal Group for which Awardee had business responsibilities within 24 months prior to Termination of Employment or about which Awardee obtained confidential information (as defined by the applicable Cardinal Group policies or agreements).
Competitor Conduct
Competitor
(c) .
General
(i) Nothing in this Paragraph 4 constitutes or is to be construed as a "noncompete" covenant or other restraint on employment or trade. The provisions of this paragraph do not prevent, nor are they intended to prevent, Awardee from seeking or accepting employment or other work outside the Cardinal Group. The execution of this Agreement is voluntary. Awardee is free to choose to comply with the terms of this Agreement and receive the benefits offered or else reject this Agreement with no adverse consequences to Awardee's employment with the Cardinal Group.
 
(ii) Awardee agrees to provide the Company with at least 10 days written notice prior to accepting employment with or providing services to a Competitor within one year after Termination of Employment.
(iii) Awardee acknowledges receiving sufficient consideration for the requirements of this Paragraph 4, including Awardee's receipt of the Performance Share Units. Awardee further acknowledges that the Company would not provide the Performance Share Units to Awardee without Awardee's promise to abide by the terms of this Paragraph 4. The parties also acknowledge that the provisions contained in this Paragraph 4 are ancillary to, or part of, an otherwise enforceable agreement at the time this Agreement is made.
(iv) Awardee may be released from the obligations of this Paragraph 4 if and only if the Administrator determines, in writing and in the Administrator's sole discretion, that a release is in the best interests of the Company.
5.
Payment.
(a) . Payment of Performance Share Units will be in Shares. Subject to the provisions of Paragraphs 4, 5(b) and 5(c), Awardee is entitled to receive from the Company (without any payment on behalf of Awardee other than as described in Paragraph 9) one Share for each vested Performance Share Unit on the 45th day after the end of the Performance Period or on such other date as determined by the Administrator (provided such date is within the short-term deferral period specified in Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)).
General
(b) . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, and subject to Paragraph 5(c) below, in the event of a Change of Control, the Payment Date will be the date of such Change of Control.
Change of Control
(c) . Elections to defer receipt of the Shares beyond the Payment Date may be permitted in the discretion of the Administrator pursuant to procedures established by the Administrator in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Elections to Defer Receipt
6. . Awardee will not receive cash dividends on the Performance Share Units, but will receive a dividend equivalent payment from the Company in an amount equal to the dividends that would have been paid on each Share paid under this Agreement if it had been outstanding between the Grant Date and the Payment Date (i.e., based on the record date for cash dividends). Subject to an election to defer receipt as permitted under Paragraph 5(c), dividend equivalent payments will be paid in cash on the Payment Date.
Dividend Equivalents
7. . By accepting these Performance Share Units, Awardee consents to a deduction from, and set-off against, any amounts owed to Awardee that are not treated as "non-qualified deferred compensation" under Section 409A of the Code by any member of the Cardinal Group from time to time (including, but not limited to, amounts owed to Awardee as wages, severance payments or other fringe benefits) to the extent of the amounts owed to the Cardinal Group by Awardee under this Agreement.
Right of Set-Off
8. . Awardee will have no rights of a shareholder with respect to the Performance Share Units, including no right to vote any Shares, until such Shares are paid to Awardee.
No Shareholder Rights
 
9. .
Withholding Tax
(a) . Awardee is liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Performance Share Units (including taxes owed with respect to the cash payments described in Paragraph 6 hereof), regardless of any action the Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Performance Share Units. The Company does not make any representation or undertaking regarding the tax treatment or the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, vesting or payment of the Performance Share Units or the subsequent sale of Shares issuable pursuant to vested Performance Share Units. The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure the Performance Share Units to reduce or eliminate Awardee's tax liability.
Generally
(b) . Prior to any event in connection with the Performance Share Units (e.g., vesting or payment) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment tax obligation (the "Tax Withholding Obligation"), Awardee is required to arrange for the satisfaction of the minimum amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company. Unless Awardee elects to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by an alternative means that is then permitted by the Company, Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement constitutes Awardee's instruction and authorization to the Company to withhold on Awardee's behalf the number of Shares from those Shares issuable to Awardee under this Award as the Company determines to be sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation as and when any such Tax Withholding Obligation becomes due. In the case of any amounts withheld for taxes pursuant to this provision in the form of Shares, the amount withheld will not exceed the minimum required by applicable law and regulations. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all cash payments paid pursuant to Paragraph 6 hereof the amount of any taxes which the Company is required to withhold with respect to such payments.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
10. . This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of Ohio, without regard to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superseded by the laws of the United States of America. Awardee acknowledges that the covenants contained in Paragraph 4 of this Agreement are reasonable in nature, are fundamental for the protection of the Company's legitimate business and proprietary interests, and do not adversely affect Awardee's ability to earn a living. In the event that it becomes necessary for the Company to institute legal proceedings under this Agreement, Awardee shall be responsible to the Company for all costs and reasonable legal fees incurred by the Company in connection with the proceedings. Any provision of this Agreement which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by the provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
Governing Law/Venue for Dispute Resolution/Costs and Legal Fees
The parties agree and acknowledge that the laws of the State of Ohio bear a substantial relationship to the parties and/or this Agreement and that the Performance Share Units and benefits granted herein would not be granted without the governance of this Agreement by the laws of the State of Ohio. In addition, all legal actions or proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in state or federal courts located in Franklin County, Ohio and the parties executing this Agreement hereby consent to the personal jurisdiction of such courts.
11. . The parties agree that the interpretation of this Agreement rests exclusively and completely within the sole discretion of the Administrator. The parties agree to be bound by the decisions of the Administrator with regard to the interpretation of this Agreement and with regard to any and all matters set forth in this Agreement. In fulfilling its responsibilities hereunder, the Administrator may rely upon documents, written statements of the parties, financial reports or other material as the Administrator deems appropriate. The parties agree that there is no right to be heard or to appear before the Administrator and that any decision of the Administrator relating to this Agreement,
Action by the Administrator
 
including, without limitation, whether particular conduct constitutes Misconduct or Competitor Conduct, will be final and binding. The Administrator may delegate its functions under this Agreement to an officer of the Cardinal Group designated by the Administrator.
12. . The Performance Share Units grant evidenced by this Agreement will, at the discretion of the Administrator, be forfeited if this Agreement is not manually executed and returned to the Company, or electronically executed by Awardee by indicating Awardee's acceptance of this Agreement in accordance with the acceptance procedures set forth on the Company's third-party equity plan administrator's web site, within 90 days of the Grant Date.
Prompt Acceptance of Agreement
13. . The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to the Performance Share Unit grant under and participation in the Plan or future Performance Share Units that may be granted under the Plan by electronic means or to request Awardee's consent to participate in the Plan by electronic means. Awardee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or another third party designated by the Company, including the acceptance of performance share unit grants and the execution of performance share unit agreements through electronic signature.
Electronic Delivery and Consent to Electronic Participation
14. . All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by Awardee to the Company will be in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by hand, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to the Company at the address set forth below:
Notices
Cardinal Health, Inc.
7000 Cardinal Place
Dublin, Ohio 43017
Attention: General Counsel
All notices, requests, consents and other communications required or provided under this Agreement to be delivered by the Company to Awardee may be delivered by e-mail or in writing and will be deemed sufficient if delivered by e-mail, hand, facsimile, nationally recognized overnight courier, or certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, and will be effective upon delivery to Awardee.
15. . To the extent a written employment agreement, offer letter or other arrangement ("Employment Arrangement") that was approved by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors or that was approved in writing by an officer of the Company pursuant to delegated authority of the Human Resources and Compensation Committee provides for greater benefits to Awardee with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment than provided in this Agreement or in the Plan, then the terms of such Employment Arrangement with respect to vesting of the Award on Termination of Employment by reason of such specified events will supersede the terms hereof to the extent permitted by the terms of the Plan.
Employment Agreement, Offer Letter or Other Arrangement
16. . The Agreement will be administered in compliance with Section 10D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any applicable rules or regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange or national securities association on which the Shares may be traded. In its discretion, moreover, the Administrator may require repayment to the Company of all or any portion of this Award if the amount of the Award was calculated based upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a restatement of the Company's financial statements, the Awardee engaged in misconduct that caused or contributed to the need
Recoupment
 
for the restatement of the financial statements, and the amount payable to the Awardee would have been lower than the amount actually paid to the Awardee had the financial results been properly reported. This Paragraph 16 is not the Company's exclusive remedy with respect to such matters. This Paragraph 16 will not apply after a Change of Control.
17. . Any amendment to the Plan will be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement to the extent that the amendment is applicable hereto; provided, however, that no amendment will impair the rights of Awardee with respect to an outstanding Performance Share Unit unless agreed by Awardee and the Company, which agreement must be in writing and signed by Awardee and the Company. Other than following a Change of Control, no such agreement will be required if the Administrator determines in its sole discretion that such amendment either: (a) is required or advisable in order for the Company, the Plan or the Performance Share Units to satisfy any Applicable Law or to meet the requirements of any accounting standard; or (b) is not reasonably likely to significantly diminish the benefits provided under the Performance Share Units, or that any such diminishment has been adequately compensated.
Amendment
 
 
Awardee hereby: (a) acknowledges that he or she has received a copy of the Plan, a copy of the Company's most recent annual report to shareholders and other communications routinely distributed to the Company's shareholders, and a copy of the Plan Description pertaining to the Plan; (b) accepts this Agreement and the Performance Share Units granted to him or her under this Agreement subject to all provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, including the provisions in the agreement regarding "Misconduct" and "Competitor Conduct" and "Special Forfeiture and Repayment Rules" set forth in Paragraph 4 above; (c) represents that he or she understands that the acceptance of this Agreement through an on-line or electronic system, if applicable, carries the same legal significance as if he or she manually signed the Agreement; and (d) agrees that no transfer of the Shares delivered in respect of the Performance Share Units may be made unless the Shares have been duly registered under all applicable Federal and state securities laws pursuant to a then-effective registration which contemplates the proposed transfer or unless the Company has received a written opinion of, or satisfactory to, its legal counsel that the proposed transfer is exempt from such registration.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Cardinal Health today reported fourth-quarter fiscal 2011 revenues of $26.8 billion and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations of $0.59, up 18 percent. For fiscal 2011, revenues increased 4 percent to $103 billion, and non-GAAP diluted EPS increased 20 percent to $2.67.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Aug. 4, 2011
Outlook for non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations in fiscal 2012 is $3.04 to $3.19 under the company's new non-GAAP definition, which excludes approximately $0.14 of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets in fiscal 2012. Fiscal 2011 non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations under this new non-GAAP definition is $2.80.
"Fiscal 2011 was an outstanding year for us. Our organization executed against our key operational and financial objectives and took action on a number of important strategic priorities which will strengthen our long-term positioning," said George Barrett, chairman and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. "Our Pharmaceutical Segment finished the year with another excellent quarter, recording 30 percent profit growth over the prior year, which reflects strong growth from strengthened generic programs and solid contribution from the acquisitions we completed earlier in the fiscal year. And although commodity costs and sluggish utilization continued to challenge our Medical Segment, we are taking actions to mitigate their impact. The underlying performance of the business is strong, and the strategic initiatives we implemented this year position us to best serve our customers' evolving needs."
 
Cardinal Health
Page 2
 
Q4 and Fiscal 2011 SUMMARY
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
Pharmaceutical Segment
Fourth-quarter revenue for the Pharmaceutical Segment, driven by recent acquisitions and sales to existing customers, increased 10 percent to $24.5 billion. Acquisitions contributed 6 percentage points to the quarterly revenue growth. Sales to non-bulk customers increased 20 percent to $13.8 billion. Segment profit for the quarter increased 30 percent to $295 million, reflecting the contribution from strong generics programs, as well as acquisitions, which contributed 12 percentage points to the segment profit growth in the quarter. Solid performance under our branded manufacturer agreements also was a positive driver.
For the full year, revenue for the Pharmaceutical Segment increased 4 percent to $93.7 billion, and segment profit increased 26 percent to $1.3 billion.
 
 
Cardinal Health
Page 3
 
Medical Segment
Fourth-quarter revenue for the Medical Segment increased 7 percent to $2.3 billion, primarily from sales growth to existing customers and the impact of transitioning the company's distribution model with CareFusion from a fee-for-service-based arrangement to a traditional branded distribution agreement. Segment profit decreased 24 percent to $78 million, primarily driven by the negative impact of commodity price increases, certain inventory-related charges and investments made to enhance business IT systems, which were partially offset by the impact of increased volume to existing customers and net new business.
For the full year, Medical Segment revenue increased 2 percent to $8.9 billion, and segment profit decreased 14 percent to $370 million.
 
ADDITIONAL YEAR-END AND RECENT HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL
Cardinal Health will host a webcast and conference call today at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time to discuss fourth-quarter and full-year results and its future outlook. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investors page at . The call also can be accessed by dialing 617-224-4326, passcode 35900182. Presentation slides and an audio replay will be archived on the website after the conclusion of the meeting. The audio replay will also be available until Sept. 4 by dialing 617-801-6888, passcode10207611.
cardinalhealth.com/investors
 
Cardinal Health
Page 4
 
UPCOMING EVENTS
 
 
At these events, Cardinal Health executives will discuss the company's diverse products and services, company performance and strategies for continued growth. To access more details and live webcasts of these events, including remarks, go to the Investors page at .
cardinalhealth.com/investors
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $103 billion that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care. As the business behind health care, Cardinal Health helps , , and focus on patient care while . Cardinal Health is an essential link in the health care supply chain, providing and to more than 60,000 locations each day. The company is also a leading manufacturer of medical and surgical products, including , and products. In addition, the company supports the growing diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to and operating the nation's largest that dispense products to aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease. Ranked #19 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health worldwide. More information about the company may be found at and on Twitter.
health care services company
pharmacies
hospitals
ambulatory surgery centers
physician offices
reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality
pharmaceuticals
medical products
gloves
surgical apparel
fluid management
clinical laboratories
network of radiopharmacies
employs more than 30,000 people
cardinalhealth.com
@CardinalHealth
 
 
Cardinal Health
Page 5
 
A reconciliation of the differences between these non-GAAP financial measures and their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is provided in the attached tables and at .
cardinalhealth.com
Cardinal Health uses its website as a channel of distribution for material company information. Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cardinal Health is routinely posted and accessible on the Investors page at .
cardinalhealth.com
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "should," "could," "would," "project," "continue," and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and expense accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties include (but are not limited to) uncertainties related to demand for Cardinal Health's products and services; uncertainties relating to Cardinal Health's ability to retain customers and employees of acquired businesses, including Kinray, Yong Yu and P4 Healthcare, and to achieve the expected benefits from the acquired businesses; uncertainties due to government health care reform including federal health care reform legislation; competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; the timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation or generic pharmaceutical price deflation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and/or services; the effects of any investigation by any regulatory authority, including with respect to compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Cardinal Health is subject to additional risks and uncertainties described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports. This news release reflects management's views as of Aug. 4, 2011. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
 
Schedule 4
 
Schedule 5
 
 
Refer to the GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the non-GAAP balances.
Schedule 6
 
 
 
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 was $26,764 million, which included total segment revenue of $26,770 million and Corporate revenue of ($6) million. Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2010 was $24,460 million, which included total segment revenue of $24,465 million and Corporate revenue of ($5) million. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended June 30, 2011 were $359 million, which included total segment profit of $373 million and Corporate costs of ($14) million. Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended June 30, 2010 were $334 million, which included total segment profit of $329 million and Corporate income of $5 million. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
Schedule 7
 
 
 
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 was $102,644 million, which included total segment revenue of $102,666 million and Corporate revenue of ($22) million. Total consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2010 was $98,503 million, which included total segment revenue of $98,540 million and Corporate revenue of ($37) million. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 were $1,514 million, which included total segment profit of $1,635 million and Corporate costs of ($121) million. Total consolidated operating earnings for the fiscal year ended June, 2010 were $1,307 million, which included total segment profit of $1,430 million and Corporate costs of ($123) million. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
Schedule 8
 
 
Schedule 9
 
 
Refer to the GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation for non-GAAP calculations. Refer to DSO, DIOH and DPO below for definitions and calculation.
Schedule 10
(in millions, except per Common Share amounts)
 
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
 
Schedule 11
 
 
Schedule 12
 
 
 
Schedule 13
 
 
 
Schedule 14
 
trade receivables, net divided by (monthly revenue divided by 30 days)
Days Sales Outstanding:
inventory divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Inventory on Hand:
accounts payable divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Payable Outstanding:
days sales outstanding plus days inventory on hand less days payable outstanding.
Net Working Capital Days:
GAAP
long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings
Debt:
debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Debt to Total Capital:
earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
provision for income taxes divided by earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations
Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations:
realized gains and losses from the sale of our ownership of CareFusion common stock retained in connection with the spin-off
(Gain)/loss on Sale of CareFusion Stock:
costs and tax charges incurred in connection with our spin-off of CareFusion that are not included in restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net. Other spin-off costs include, among other things, the loss on extinguishment of debt and the income tax charge related to the anticipated repatriation of a portion of cash loaned to our entities within the United States
Other Spin-Off Costs:
segment revenue minus (segment cost of products sold and segment distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses)
Segment Profit:
segment profit divided by segment revenue
Segment Profit Margin:
segment profit divided by total segment profit for all segments
Segment Profit Mix:
annualized net earnings divided by average shareholders' equity
Return on Equity:
segment revenue divided by total segment revenue for all segments
Revenue Mix:
definitions of non-GAAP terms under historical definitions; new non-GAAP terms are described on the following pages
NON-GAAP -
net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Net Debt to Capital:
debt minus (cash and equivalents)
Net Debt:
non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
(current period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations minus prior period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations) divided by prior period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations Growth Rate:
earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) (gain)/loss on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations:
(current period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations minus prior period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations) divided by prior period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations Growth Rate:
(provision for income taxes adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) (gain)/loss on sale of CareFusion stock) divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) (gain)/loss on sale of CareFusion stock)
Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations:
operating earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs included within distribution, selling, general and administrative expense
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings:
(current period non-GAAP operating earnings minus prior period non-GAAP operating earnings) divided by prior period non-GAAP operating earnings
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings Growth Rate:
(annualized current period net earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs, (6) (gain)/loss on sale of CareFusion stock (7) CareFusion net earnings in discontinued operations, each net of tax) and divided by average shareholders' equity adjusted for the $3.7 billion non-cash dividend issued in connection with the spin-off
Non-GAAP Return on Equity:
Schedule 15
Beginning in fiscal 2012, we will use new non-GAAP definitions. The new definitions exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets in addition to the items currently excluded. The tables below present the new non-GAAP measures for each quarter of fiscal 2011, the comparable GAAP measures, and a reconciliation of the differences between GAAP measures, the new non-GAAP measures, and non-GAAP measures under the historical definitions.
Note:
(in millions, except per Common Share amounts)
 
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
 
Schedule 16
Beginning in fiscal 2012, we will use new non-GAAP definitions. The new definitions exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets in addition to the items currently excluded. The tables below present the new non-GAAP measures for each quarter of fiscal 2010, the comparable GAAP measures, and a reconciliation of the differences between GAAP measures, the new non-GAAP measures, and non-GAAP measures under the historical definitions.
Note:
(in millions, except per Common Share amounts)
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
 
Schedule 17
Beginning in fiscal 2012, we will use new non-GAAP definitions. The new definitions exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets in addition to the items currently excluded. The tables below present the new non-GAAP measures for fiscal year 2011 and fiscal year 2010, the comparable GAAP measures and a reconciliation of the differences between the GAAP measures, the new non-GAAP measures and non-GAAP measures under the historical definition.
Note:
(in millions, except per Common Share amounts)
 
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
 
Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations (and presentations derived from these financial measures, including per share calculations) on a forward-looking basis under a new definition that excludes amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, which we currently estimate to be $0.14 for fiscal 2012. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures are earnings from continuing operations and effective tax rate from continuing operations. We are unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because we cannot reliably forecast restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and other spin-off costs, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our future financial results.
Schedule 18
Beginning in fiscal 2012, we will use a new measure for computing segment profit. The new measure excludes amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets in addition to the items currently excluded from segment profit. The tables below present segment profit as historically presented as well as segment profit adjusted to exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets for each quarter and full year of fiscal 2011 and 2010.
Note:
 
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.

Exhibit 99.2
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company's") earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance and provides them to investors because the measures exclude items and charges that management believes are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of the Company's products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions or, in the case of litigation (recoveries)/charges, activities that may have occurred in prior or multiple periods, in each case without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. As discussed below, following the August 31, 2009 spin-off (the "Spin-Off") of CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion"), some of these non-GAAP financial measures exclude net earnings of CareFusion included in discontinued operations and other items associated with the Spin-Off. The purpose for these adjustments is to provide for better comparability between periods by removing the impact of CareFusion on all periods. By doing so, management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information regarding the historical trend of these measures as they relate to the remaining operations of the Company.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. Many of the charges and other items excluded in the calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may be recurring items and, with the exception of asset impairments, litigation gains and gain or loss on sale of CareFusion stock, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Accordingly, these non-GAAP measures should be evaluated in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures because the non-GAAP measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the comparable GAAP measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The Company has provided reconciliations of the "non-GAAP" financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the earnings release. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures also are included in the earnings release.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP operating earnings" and presentations derived from this measure. This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and Other Spin-Off Costs included within distribution, selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A Expense").
Non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation).
The Company classifies a restructuring activity as a program whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing facilities, moving manufacturing of a product to another location or outsourcing the production of a product. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial re-alignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. A liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the period in which it is incurred except for a liability for a one-time termination benefit which is recognized over its future service period.
The Company classifies costs incurred in connection with acquisitions as acquisition-related costs. The costs consist primarily of transaction costs, integration costs and changes in the fair value of contingent payments. Acquisition transaction costs are incurred during the initial evaluation of a potential targeted acquisition and primarily relate to costs to analyze, negotiate and consummate the transactions as well as financial and legal due diligence activities. Integration activities are costs incurred to combine the operations of an acquired enterprise into the Company's operations. We record changes in the fair value of contingent payments relating to acquisitions as income or expense in our acquisition-related costs.
Asset impairments and losses from the sale of assets not eligible to be classified as discontinued operations are classified within impairments and loss on sale of assets within the consolidated statements of earnings.
Estimated loss contingencies related to litigation and regulatory matters and income from favorable resolution of legal matters are recognized in litigation (recoveries)/charges, net within the consolidated statements of earnings.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations" and presentations derived from this measure. This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, each net of tax. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and (gain) or loss on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax. Other Spin-Off Costs excluded from this non-GAAP financial measure include the loss on extinguishment of debt, the tax expense related to the anticipated repatriation of a portion of cash loaned to the Company's entities within the United States, and other costs included within SG&A Expense and other (income)/expense, net on the consolidated statement of earnings. (Gains) or losses on sale of CareFusion stock relate to the Company's sales of the shares of CareFusion common stock that the Company retained in the Spin-Off.
Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and presentations derived from it (per share and growth rate calculations).
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP return on equity." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, each net of tax, from the numerator of the calculation. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP financial measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and (gain) or loss on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax, from the numerator of the calculation.
Non-GAAP return on equity.
In addition to the adjustments described above, the Company is excluding the net earnings of CareFusion included in discontinued operations from adjusted net earnings in the calculation of non-GAAP return on equity for all periods presented. Also, the Company is excluding the non-cash dividend from average shareholders' equity in the calculation of non-GAAP return on equity to remove CareFusion equity for all periods presented.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net from the denominator of the calculation and the tax effect of restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net from the numerator of the calculation. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP financial measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and (gain) or loss on sale of CareFusion stock from the denominator of the calculation and the tax effect of Other Spin-Off Costs, including the tax expense related to the anticipated repatriation of a portion of cash loaned to the Company's entities within the United States, and gain on sale of CareFusion stock from the numerator of the calculation.
Non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "net debt to capital," which is net debt divided by capital (net debt plus total shareholders' equity). "Net debt," also a non-GAAP financial measure, is debt (the most comparable GAAP measure, calculated as long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings) minus cash and equivalents. Management believes that net debt to capital is an important measure to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet. With respect to net debt, cash and equivalents are subtracted from the GAAP measure because they could be used to reduce the Company's debt obligations. A limitation associated with using net debt is that it subtracts cash and equivalents and therefore may imply that there is less Company debt than the most comparable GAAP measure indicates. Management believes that investors may find it useful to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet.
Net debt to capital.
Beginning in fiscal 2012 the Company will use new non-GAAP definitions. The new definitions exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, net of tax, in addition to the items discussed above that are currently excluded. Amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, net of tax, represents amortization expense of acquired intangible assets purchased in connection with acquisitions by the Company. Management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures under the new definition will assist investors in comparisons against other companies as well as enhance investors' evaluation of the Company's ongoing operations and comparisons of the Company's current operations with historical and future results.
In the Company's earnings release the Company has provided the new non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and other new non-GAAP financial measures for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 and a reconciliation of the differences between the new non-GAAP financial measures and non-GAAP measures under the historical definitions and of the differences between the new non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. In addition, beginning in fiscal 2012, the Company will revise its definition of segment profit to exclude amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. In its earnings release the Company has provided a non-GAAP financial measure, "adjusted segment profit", on a quarterly and annual basis for fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2011 which reflects this change. The earnings release also contains a reconciliation of the differences between adjusted segment profit and segment profit.
The new non-GAAP financial measures and adjusted segment profit have been included to illustrate the effect of the exclusion of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets on a historical basis.


