FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20111027070434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 27, 2011, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
A discussion of the reasons why management believes that the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors regarding the Company's financial condition and results of operations is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:30 a.m. Eastern on October 27, 2011, Cardinal Health's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 and outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The slide presentation for the conference call will be available on the Investors page at An audio replay of the conference call also will be available on the Investors page at
www.cardinalhealth.com.
www.cardinalhealth.com.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Cardinal Health today reported fiscal year 2012 first-quarter revenue of $26.8 billion and an 11 percent increase in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) to $0.73. On a GAAP basis, diluted EPS from continuing operations declined 19 percent to $0.68, reflecting a prior-year gain of $0.21 from the sale of CareFusion stock. Strong revenue growth was driven by 10 percent revenue increases in both the Pharmaceutical and Medical segments. Results reflected 16 percent growth in non-GAAP operating earnings, led by a 19 percent increase in Pharmaceutical segment profit.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Oct. 27, 2011
"Our fiscal 2012 has started with a solid first quarter, driven by strong revenue gains from both of our segments, continued progress on our margin initiatives and contributions from our recent acquisitions," said George Barrett, chairman and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. "While we're pleased with the performance of our business in this first quarter, we're even more excited about the growth in strategic priority areas including specialty, positron emission tomography, generics, ambulatory, preferred medical products and China. Our progress in these areas provides increasing confidence that we're positioning well for future growth."
The company reaffirmed its fiscal 2012 outlook for non-GAAP diluted earnings per share of $3.04 to $3.19.
Q1 FY12 SUMMARY
 
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
Pharmaceutical segment
Revenue for the Pharmaceutical segment increased 10 percent to $24.4 billion, including significant contribution from acquisitions completed in FY11 and growth from existing customers. Segment profit increased 19 percent to $363 million, reflecting the contribution of the acquisitions and the performance of generics programs.
 
Medical segment
Revenue for the Medical segment increased 10 percent to $2.4 billion, primarily driven by growth from existing and net new customers and the transition of CareFusion from fee-for-service to traditional distribution agreement. As anticipated, segment profit declined 5 percent to $79 million, as profit increases from the company's preferred products programs and the volume relating to both existing and net new customers were negatively offset by commodity costs and the impact associated with the previously disclosed Presource kit matter.
 
ADDITIONAL FIRST-QUARTER AND RECENT HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL
Cardinal Health will host a webcast and conference call today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern to discuss first-quarter results and its future outlook. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investors page at The call can also be accessed by dialing 617.213.8835 passcode 25843607. Presentation slides and an audio replay will be archived on the website after the conclusion of the meeting. The audio replay will also be available until Nov. 27 by dialing 617-801-6888, passcode 72444146.
cardinalhealth.com/investors.
UPCOMING EVENTS
 
At these events, Cardinal Health executives will discuss the company's diverse products and services, company performance and strategies for continued growth. To access more details and live webcasts of these events, including remarks, go to the Investors page at
cardinalhealth.com.
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $103 billion that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care. As the business behind health care, Cardinal Health helps , and focus on patient care while . Cardinal Health is an essential link in the health care supply chain, providing and to more than 60,000 locations each day. The company is also a leading manufacturer of, including , and products. In addition, the company supports the growing diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to and operating the nation's largest that dispense products to aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease. Ranked #19 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health worldwide. More information about the company may be found at
health care services company
pharmacies,
hospitals
ambulatory surgery centers
physician offices
reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality
pharmaceuticals
medical products
medical and surgical products
gloves
surgical apparel
fluid management
clinical laboratories
network of radiopharmacies
employs more than 30,000 people
cardinalhealth.com.
1
Non-GAAP operating earnings: Operating earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets), (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and (5) Other Spinoff Costs included within distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses.
2
Non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations: Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
3
Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations: Earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets), (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spinoff Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax
Cardinal Health uses its website as a channel of distribution for material company information. Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cardinal Health is routinely posted and accessible on the Investors page at
cardinalhealth.com.
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "should," "could," "would," "project," "continue," and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and expense accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties include (but are not limited to) uncertainties related to demand for Cardinal Health's products and services; uncertainties relating to Cardinal Health's ability to achieve the expected benefits from the acquisitions of Kinray, Yong Yu, P4 Healthcare and Futuremed; uncertainties due to government health care reform including federal health care reform legislation; competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; the timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of branded pharmaceutical price appreciation or generic pharmaceutical price deflation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and/or services; the effects of any investigation by any regulatory authority; and changes in the cost of commodities such as oil-based resins, cotton, latex and diesel fuel. Cardinal Health is subject to additional risks and uncertainties described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports (including all amendments to those reports) and exhibits to those reports. This news release reflects management's views as of Oct. 27, 2011. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
 
Schedule 4
 
Refer to the GAAP/Non-GAAP Reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the Non-GAAP balances.
Schedule 5
 
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2011 was $26,792 million, which included total segment revenue of $26,798 million and Corporate revenue of $(6) million. Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2010 was $24,438 million, which included total segment revenue of $24,442 million and Corporate revenue of $(4) million. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2011 were $412 million, which included total segment profit of $442 million and Corporate costs of $(30) million. Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2010 were $364 million, which included total segment profit of $390 million and Corporate costs of $(26) million. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
Schedule 6
 
 
 
Schedule 7
 
Refer to the GAAP/Non-GAAP Reconciliation for Non-GAAP calculations. Refer to DSO, DIOH and DPO for definitions and calculations.
Schedule 8
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
 
Schedule 9
 
 
 
Schedule 10
 
1
We apply varying tax rates depending upon the tax jurisdiction where the items are incurred.
Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations (and presentations derived from these financial measures, including per share calculations) on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures are earnings from continuing operations and effective tax rate from continuing operations. We are unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because we cannot reliably forecast restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and other spin-off costs, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our future financial results.
Schedule 11
 
trade receivables, net divided by (monthly revenue divided by 30 days).
Days Sales Outstanding:
inventory divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Inventory on Hand:
accounts payable divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Payable Outstanding:
days sales outstanding plus days inventory on hand less days payable outstanding.
Net Working Capital Days:
GAAP
long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings
Debt:
debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Debt to Total Capital:
earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
provision for income taxes divided by earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations
Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations:
realized gains from the sale of our ownership of CareFusion common stock retained in connection with the spin-off
Gain
on Sale of CareFusion Stock:
costs incurred in connection with our Spin-Off of CareFusion which are included in distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses
Other Spin-Off Costs:
segment revenue minus (segment cost of products sold and segment distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses)
Segment Profit:
segment profit divided by segment revenue
Segment Profit Margin:
segment profit divided by total segment profit for all segments
Segment Profit Mix:
annualized net earnings divided by average shareholders' equity
Return on Equity:
segment revenue divided by total segment revenue for all segments
Revenue Mix:
NON-GAAP
net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders' equity)
Net Debt to Capital:
debt minus (cash and equivalents)
Net Debt:
non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations:
(current period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations minus prior period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations) divided by prior period non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations Growth Rate:
earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets), (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations:
(current period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations minus prior period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations) divided by prior period non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations Growth Rate:
(provision for income taxes adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets), (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock) divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets), (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock)
Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations:
operating earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets), (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs included within distribution, selling, general and administrative expense
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings:
(current period non-GAAP operating earnings minus prior period non-GAAP operating earnings) divided by prior period non-GAAP operating earnings
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings Growth Rate:
(annualized current period net earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets), (3) impairments and loss on sale of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs, (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock and (7) CareFusion net earnings in discontinued operations, each net of tax) and divided by average shareholders' equity
Non-GAAP Return on Equity:

Exhibit 99.2
In addition to disclosing financial results calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company's") earnings release contains non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Company's performance and provides them to investors because the measures exclude items and charges that management believes are not reflective of the day-to-day offering of the Company's products and services and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate actions or, in the case of litigation (recoveries)/charges, activities that may have occurred in prior or multiple periods, in each case without predictable trends, that may obscure the trends and financial performance of the Company's core business. As a result of the August 31, 2009 spin-off (the "Spin-Off") of CareFusion Corporation ("CareFusion"), some of these non-GAAP financial measures exclude net earnings of CareFusion included in discontinued operations and other items associated with the Spin-Off. The purpose for these adjustments is to provide for better comparability between periods by removing the impact of CareFusion on all periods. By doing so, management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information regarding the historical trend of these measures as they relate to the remaining operations of the Company.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements should be carefully evaluated. Many of the charges and other items excluded in the calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may be recurring items and, with the exception of asset impairments, litigation gains and gain on sale of CareFusion stock, the excluded items include transactions that reflect cash costs to the Company. Accordingly, these non-GAAP measures should be evaluated in combination with the most comparable GAAP measures because the non-GAAP measures do not reflect items that impact current period operating results and may be higher than the comparable GAAP measures. Management encourages readers to rely upon the GAAP numbers, but includes the non-GAAP financial measures as supplemental metrics to assist readers. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The Company has provided reconciliations of the "non-GAAP" financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures in the earnings release. Definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures also are included in the earnings release.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP operating earnings" and presentations derived from this measure. This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and Other Spin-Off Costs included within distribution, selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A Expense").
Non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation).
The Company considers restructuring activities to be programs whereby the Company fundamentally changes its operations such as closing and consolidating certain manufacturing and distribution facilities, moving manufacturing of a product to another location, outsourcing the production of a product, rationalizing headcount, and realigning operations. Restructuring activities may also involve substantial realignment of the management structure of a business unit in response to changing market conditions. A liability for a cost associated with an exit or disposal activity is recognized and measured initially at its fair value in the period in which it is incurred except for a liability for a one-time termination benefit, which is recognized over its future service period.
The Company classifies costs incurred in connection with acquisitions as acquisition-related costs. The costs consist primarily of transaction costs, integration costs, changes in the fair value of contingent payments and amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets. Transaction costs are incurred during the initial evaluation of a potential targeted acquisition and primarily relate to costs to analyze, negotiate and consummate the transactions as well as due diligence activities. Integration costs relate to activities needed to combine the operations of an acquired enterprise into the Company's operations. The Company records changes in the fair value of contingent payments relating to acquisitions as income or expense in our acquisition-related costs.
Asset impairments and losses from the sale of assets not eligible to be classified as discontinued operations are classified within impairments and loss on sale of assets within the consolidated statements of earnings.
Estimated loss contingencies related to litigation and regulatory matters and income from favorable resolution of legal matters are recognized in litigation (recoveries)/charges, net within the consolidated statements of earnings.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations" and presentations derived from this measure. This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, each net of tax. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax. Other Spin-Off Costs are costs incurred in connection with the Spin-Off that are included within SG&A Expense on the consolidated statement of earnings. Gains on sale of CareFusion stock relate to the Company's sales of the shares of CareFusion common stock that the Company retained in the Spin-Off.
Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and presentations derived from it (per share and growth rate calculations).
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP return on equity." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, each net of tax, from the numerator of the calculation. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP financial measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax, from the numerator of the calculation.
Non-GAAP return on equity.
In addition to the adjustments described above, the Company is excluding the net earnings of CareFusion included in discontinued operations from adjusted net earnings in the calculation of non-GAAP return on equity for all periods presented.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations." This non-GAAP financial measure excludes restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, from the denominator of the calculation and the tax effect of restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on sale of assets and litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, from the numerator of the calculation. See the discussion of these classifications above under the heading "non-GAAP operating earnings and presentations derived from it (growth rate calculation)" for information regarding their components. This non-GAAP financial measure also excludes Other Spin-Off Costs and gain on sale of CareFusion stock from the denominator of the calculation and the tax effect of Other Spin-Off Costs and gain on sale of CareFusion stock from the numerator of the calculation.
Non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations.
The Company presents the non-GAAP financial measure "net debt to capital," which is net debt divided by capital (net debt plus total shareholders' equity). "Net debt," also a non-GAAP financial measure, is debt (the most comparable GAAP measure, calculated as long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings) minus cash and equivalents. Management believes that net debt to capital is an important measure to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet. With respect to net debt, cash and equivalents are subtracted from the GAAP measure because they could be used to reduce the Company's debt obligations. A limitation associated with using net debt is that it subtracts cash and equivalents and therefore may imply that there is less Company debt than the most comparable GAAP measure indicates. Management believes that investors may find it useful to monitor leverage and evaluate the balance sheet.
Net debt to capital.


