FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20120802070454.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 2, 2012, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:00 a.m. Eastern on August 2, 2012, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter and fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 and outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2013. The slide presentation for the conference call will be available on the Investors page at . An audio replay of the conference call also will be available on the Investors page at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
www.cardinalhealth.com
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Cardinal Health today reported fourth-quarter fiscal year 2012 revenues of $26.8 billion and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations of $0.73, up 22 percent. The company reported fiscal year 2012 revenues increased 5 percent to $108 billion, and non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 15 percent to $3.21.
DUBLIN, Ohio, Aug. 2, 2012
"We finished our fiscal year with a strong fourth quarter, growing our non-GAAP EPS by 22 percent," said George Barrett, chairman and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. "Our Pharmaceutical segment continued its strong momentum, and, as expected, our Medical segment finished the year with profit growth in the fourth quarter and is well-positioned as we begin FY 2013.
"Overall, fiscal 2012 was another strong year, meeting virtually all of our financial goals, including revenues, margin growth, operating earnings, EPS and cash flow. It was also a year in which we made great strides on our strategic priorities  including expansion of our retail independent customer base, improved generic contribution, build out of our Positron Emission Tomography capabilities, accelerating penetration of our specialty solutions, growth in preferred medical products, expansion of our ambulatory franchise and excellent growth in China."
The outlook for non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations in fiscal 2013 is $3.35 to $3.50 and incorporates the previously announced non-renewal of the Express Scripts contract.
Cardinal Health
Page 2
 
Q4 and Fiscal Year Summary
 
SEGMENT RESULTS
Pharmaceutical Segment
Fourth-quarter revenue for the Pharmaceutical segment decreased 1 percent to $24.3 billion. The decrease, primarily due to brand-to-generic conversions, was mostly offset by revenue from new customers. Segment profit for the quarter increased 15 percent to $354 million, driven by the overall strong performance of generic programs and the benefits of expanded business with new and existing customers, including strong contributions from retail independents. Segment profit also benefited from performance under branded agreements.
For the full year, revenue for the Pharmaceutical segment increased 4 percent to $97.9 billion, and segment profit increased 17 percent to $1.6 billion.
 
 
Cardinal Health
Page 3
 
Medical Segment
Fourth-quarter revenue for the Medical segment increased 5 percent to $2.4 billion. Segment profit increased 2 percent to $79 million, primarily driven by increased sales of preferred products, offset by expenses related to the new systems implementation. In addition, the negative impact of commodities and foreign exchange moderated to $8 million in the quarter versus prior year.
For the full year, Medical segment revenue increased 8 percent to $9.6 billion, and segment profit decreased 11 percent to $332 million.
 
ADDITIONAL YEAR-END AND RECENT HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL
Cardinal Health will host a webcast and conference call today at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time to discuss fourth-quarter and full-year results and its future outlook. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investors page at . The call also can be accessed by dialing 224.357.2209. Presentation slides and an audio replay will be archived on the website after the conclusion of the meeting. The audio replay will also be available until Sept. 2 by dialing 855.859.2056 or 404.537.3406, access code 98065830.
cardinalhealth.com
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $108 billion that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care. As the business behind health care, Cardinal Health helps , , and focus on patient care while . Cardinal Health is an essential link in the health care supply chain, providing and to more than 60,000 locations each day. The company is also a leading manufacturer of medical and surgical products, including , and products. In addition, the company supports the growing diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to and operating the nation's largest that dispense products to aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease. Ranked #21 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health worldwide. More information about the company may be found at and on Twitter.
health care services company
pharmacies
hospitals
ambulatory surgery centers
physician offices
reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality
pharmaceuticals
medical products
gloves
surgical apparel
fluid management
clinical laboratories
network of radiopharmacies
employs more than 30,000 people
cardinalhealth.com
@CardinalHealth
 
Cardinal Health
Page 4
 
1
See the attached tables for definitions of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this news release and reconciliations of the differences between the non-GAAP financial measures and their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Cardinal Health uses its website as a channel of distribution for material company information. Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cardinal Health is routinely posted and accessible on the Investors page at .
cardinalhealth.com
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "should," "could," "would," "project," "continue," "likely," and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and expense accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties include competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; the timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of pharmaceutical price appreciation or deflation; uncertainties due to government health care reform including federal health care reform legislation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and services; the effects of any investigation or action by any regulatory authority; changes in the cost of commodities such as oil-based resins, cotton, latex and diesel fuel; and uncertainties concerning Cardinal Health's ability to achieve the expected benefits of its Medical segment's business transformation project. Cardinal Health is subject to additional risks and uncertainties described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and exhibits to those reports. This news release reflects management's views as of Aug. 2, 2012. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
 
Schedule 4
 
Schedule 5
 
Refer to the GAAP/Non-GAAP reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the Non-GAAP balances.
Schedule 6
 
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2012 was $26,764 million, which included total segment revenue of $26,767 million and Corporate revenue of $(3) million. Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 was $26,764 million, which included total segment revenue of $26,770 million and Corporate revenue of $(6) million. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended June 30, 2012 were $403 million, which included total segment profit of $433 million and Corporate costs of $(30) million. Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended June 30, 2011 were $359 million, which included total segment profit of $386 million and Corporate costs of $(27) million. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations), impairments and loss on disposal of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
Schedule 7
 
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 was $107,552 million, which included total segment revenue of $107,567 million and Corporate revenue of $(15) million. Total consolidated revenue for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 was $102,644 million, which included total segment revenue of $102,666 million and Corporate revenue of $(22) million. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 were $1,792 million, which included total segment profit of $1,890 million and Corporate costs of $(98) million. Total consolidated operating earnings for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2011 were $1,514 million, which included total segment profit of $1,702 million and Corporate costs of $(188) million. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations), impairments and loss on disposal of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
Schedule 8
 
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
 
Schedule 9
 
 
Refer to the GAAP/Non-GAAP reconciliation for Non-GAAP calculations. Refer to DSO, DIOH and DPO for definitions and calculations.
Schedule 10
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
Schedule 11
 
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
 
Schedule 12
 
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
 
Schedule 13
 
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
We present non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations (and presentations derived from these financial measures, including per share calculations) on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures are earnings from continuing operations and effective tax rate from continuing operations. We are unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because we cannot reliably forecast restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on disposal of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and other spin-off costs, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our future financial results.
Schedule 14
 
 
: trade receivables, net divided by (monthly revenue divided by 30 days).
Days Sales Outstanding
: inventory divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Inventory on Hand
: accounts payable divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days).
Days Payable Outstanding
: days sales outstanding plus days inventory on hand less days payable outstanding.
Net Working Capital Days
This earnings release contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In general, the measures exclude items and charges that (i) management does not believe reflect Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company") core business and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate activities; or (ii) relate to activities or actions that may have occurred over multiple or in prior periods without predictable trends. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate the Company's performance, evaluate the balance sheet, engage in financial and operational planning and determine incentive compensation.
Management provides these non-GAAP financial measures to investors as supplemental metrics to assist readers in assessing the effects of items and events on its financial and operating results and in comparing the Company's performance to that of its competitors. However, the non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements set forth above should be carefully evaluated.
: long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings.
Debt
: debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders' equity).
Debt to Total Capital
: a Non-GAAP measure defined as debt minus (cash and equivalents).
Net Debt
: a Non-GAAP measure defined as net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders' equity).
Net Debt to Capital
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations and growth rate calculation
1
: non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
: earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations and growth rate calculation
2
, (2) acquisition-related costs
3
, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets
4
, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net
5
, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax.
: (provision for income taxes adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock) divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for the same six items).
Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations
: operating earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs.
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings and growth rate calculation
: (annualized current period net earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs, (6) gain on sale of CareFusion stock and (7) CareFusion net loss in discontinued operations, each net of tax) and divided by average shareholders' equity.
Non-GAAP Return on Equity
: costs incurred in connection with our Spin-Off of CareFusion which are included in distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Other Spin-Off Costs
: annualized current period net earnings divided by average shareholders' equity.
Return on Equity
: segment revenue divided by total segment revenue for all segments.
Revenue Mix
: segment revenue minus (segment cost of products sold and segment distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses).
Segment Profit
: segment profit divided by segment revenue.
Segment Profit Margin
: segment profit divided by total segment profit for all segments.
Segment Profit Mix
 


