FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20120503070643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 3, 2012, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:30 a.m. Eastern on May 3, 2012, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 and outlook for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012. The slide presentation for the conference call will be available on the Investors page at . An audio replay of the conference call also will be available on the Investors page at .
www.cardinalhealth.com
www.cardinalhealth.com
As disclosed in the Company's press release dated May 2, 2012, the Company's board of directors approved the Company's 111th consecutive quarterly dividend payable on July 15, 2012 to shareholders of record on July 1, 2012. The last trading day on the New York Stock Exchange prior to the record date is June 29, 2012.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cardinal Health today reported a 3 percent increase in fiscal 2012 third-quarter revenue to $26.9 billion and a 6 percent increase in non-GAAP operating earnings to $524 million. The company also reported a 16 percent increase in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations to $0.94.
DUBLIN, Ohio, May 3, 2012
"We are pleased to report another solid quarter of revenue growth for both of our business segments, as well as continued strong growth in earnings per share," said George Barrett, chairman and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. "Our Pharmaceutical segment continued its robust profit performance. Our Medical segment fundamentals showed continued momentum, but as anticipated, profit was negatively impacted by the cost of commodity inputs. However, we see the year-over-year impact of this dynamic subsiding in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012 and into fiscal 2013."
The company raised the lower end of its guidance resulting in a revised range of $3.15 to $3.20 for fiscal 2012 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.
Q3 FY12 SUMMARY
 
A reduction in the fair value of the P4 Healthcare acquisition earn-out liability positively impacted third-quarter fiscal 2012 GAAP operating earnings by $55 million and GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations by $0.10 per share. Third-quarter fiscal 2012 GAAP and Non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations benefited from a lower tax rate than the prior year's higher-than-usual tax rate.
SEGMENT RESULTS
Pharmaceutical segment
Revenue for the Pharmaceutical segment increased 3 percent to $24.5 billion, driven by growth from existing customers. Segment profit increased 9 percent to $446 million, due to the strong performance of generic programs including the impact of new and recently launched items.
 
Medical segment
Revenue for the Medical segment increased 8 percent to $2.4 billion, driven by growth from existing customers, including strong sales of preferred products. Segment profit declined 17 percent to $89 million, due to the anticipated negative impact of commodity price increases and increased information system expenses, primarily related to the launch of the company's Medical Business Transformation. The decline was partially offset by the positive margin impact of higher preferred products volume.
 
ADDITIONAL THIRD-QUARTER AND RECENT HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
CONFERENCE CALL
The company has scheduled a webcast and conference call for May 3 at 8:30 a.m. Eastern to discuss third-quarter results. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investors page at . Participants accessing the presentation through the website will be asked to register and can do so prior to the call on the Investors page. Participants can also dial 224-357-2209 directly; no passcode or registration will be required.
cardinalhealth.com
Presentation slides and an audio replay will be archived on the website after the conclusion of the meeting. The audio replay will also be available until June 4 by dialing either 855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406.
UPCOMING WEBCASTED EVENTS
 
 
 
 
At these events, Cardinal Health executives will discuss the company's diverse products and services, company performance and strategies for continued growth. To access more details and live webcasts of these events, go to the Investors page at .
cardinalhealth.com
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $103 billion that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care. As the business behind health care, Cardinal Health helps , , and focus on patient care while . Cardinal Health is an essential link in the health care supply chain, providing and to more than 60,000 locations each day. The company is also a leading manufacturer of , including , and products. In addition, the company supports the growing diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to and operating the nation's largest that dispense products to aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease. Ranked #19 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health worldwide. More information about the company may be found at .
health care services company
pharmacies
hospitals
ambulatory surgery centers
physician offices
reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality
pharmaceuticals
medical products
medical and surgical products
gloves
surgical apparel
fluid management
clinical laboratories
network of radiopharmacies
employs more than 30,000 people
cardinalhealth.com
 
Cardinal Health uses its website as a channel of distribution for material company information. Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cardinal Health is routinely posted and accessible on the Investors page at .
cardinalhealth.com
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "should," "could," "would," "project," "continue," "likely," and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and expense accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties include uncertainties due to government health care reform including federal health care reform legislation; competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships; the timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of pharmaceutical price appreciation or deflation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and services; the effects of any investigation or action by any regulatory authority, including the Drug Enforcement Administration's suspension of the company's Lakeland, Fla., distribution center's registration to distribute controlled substances; changes in the cost of commodities such as oil-based resins, cotton, latex and diesel fuel; and, with respect to future dividends, the decision by the Cardinal Health board of directors to declare such dividends, which decision will depend on Cardinal Health's surplus, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects at the time any such action is considered. Cardinal Health is subject to additional risks and uncertainties described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and exhibits to those reports. This news release reflects management's views as of May 3, 2012. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Schedule 1
 
Schedule 2
 
Schedule 3
 
Schedule 4
 
Schedule 5
 
 
Refer to the GAAP/Non-GAAP reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the Non-GAAP balances.
Schedule 6
 
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2012 was $26,918 million, which included total segment revenue of $26,922 million and Corporate revenue of $(4) million. Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $26,071 million, which included total segment revenue of $26,076 million and Corporate revenue of $(5) million. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2012 were $527 million, which included total segment profit of $535 million and Corporate costs of $(8) million. Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended March 31, 2011 were $447 million, which included total segment profit of $519 million and Corporate costs of $(72) million. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations), impairments and loss on disposal of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
Schedule 7
 
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the nine months ended March 31, 2012 was $80,788 million, which included total segment revenue of $80,801 million and Corporate revenue of $(13) million. Total consolidated revenue for the nine months ended March 31, 2011 was $75,881 million, which included total segment revenue of $75,896 million and Corporate revenue of $(15) million. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the nine months ended March 31, 2012 were $1,388 million, which included total segment profit of $1,457 million and Corporate costs of $(69) million. Total consolidated operating earnings for the nine months ended March 31, 2011 were $1,155 million, which included total segment profit of $1,315 million and Corporate costs of $(160) million. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations), impairments and loss on disposal of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
Schedule 8
 
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
 
Schedule 9
 
Refer to the GAAP/Non-GAAP reconciliation for Non-GAAP calculations. Refer to DSO, DIOH and DPO for definitions and calculations.
Schedule 10
(in millions, except per Common Share amounts)
 
 
 
 
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
 
Schedule 11
 
 
Schedule 12
 
 
Schedule 13
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations (and presentations derived from these financial measures, including per share calculations) on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures are earnings from continuing operations and effective tax rate from continuing operations. We are unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because we cannot reliably forecast restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs (including amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and changes in the fair value of contingent consideration obligations), impairments and loss on disposal of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and other spin-off costs, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our future financial results.
Schedule 14
 
: trade receivables, net divided by (monthly revenue divided by 30 days).
Days Sales Outstanding
: inventory divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Inventory on Hand
: accounts payable divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a product's wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Payable Outstanding
: days sales outstanding plus days inventory on hand less days payable outstanding.
Net Working Capital Days
This earnings release contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). In general, the measures exclude items and charges that (i) management does not believe reflect Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company") core business and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate activities; or (ii) relate to activities or actions that may have occurred over multiple or in prior periods without predictable trends. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate the Company's performance, evaluate the balance sheet, engage in financial and operational planning and determine incentive compensation.
Management provides these non-GAAP financial measures to investors as supplemental metrics to assist readers in assessing the effects of items and events on its financial and operating results and in comparing the Company's performance to that of its competitors. However, the non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements set forth above should be carefully evaluated.
: long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings.
Debt
: debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders' equity).
Debt to Total Capital
: a Non-GAAP measure defined as debt minus (cash and equivalents).
Net Debt
: a Non-GAAP measure defined as net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders' equity).
Net Debt to Capital
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations and growth rate calculation
1
: non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted average shares outstanding.
: earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations and growth rate calculation
2
, (2) acquisition-related costs
3
, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets
4
, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net
5
, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) (gain)/loss on sale of CareFusion stock, each net of tax.
: (provision for income taxes adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs and (6) (gain)/loss on sale of CareFusion stock) divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for the same six items).
Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations
: operating earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs.
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings and growth rate calculation
: (annualized current period net earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, (5) Other Spin-Off Costs, (6) (gain)/loss on sale of CareFusion stock and (7) CareFusion net earnings in discontinued operations, each net of tax) and divided by average shareholders' equity.
Non-GAAP Return on Equity
: costs incurred in connection with our Spin-Off of CareFusion which are included in distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Other Spin-Off Costs
: annualized current period net earnings divided by average shareholders' equity.
Return on Equity
: segment revenue divided by total segment revenue for all segments.
Revenue Mix
: segment revenue minus (segment cost of products sold and segment distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses).
Segment Profit
: segment profit divided by segment revenue.
Segment Profit Margin
: segment profit divided by total segment profit for all segments.
Segment Profit Mix
 
 
 
 
 


