FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20120515084254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 15, 2012 Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release concerning the Drug Enforcement Administration's actions at the Company's Lakeland, Fla., distribution center. A copy of the press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Cardinal Health today said it had agreed to a settlement with the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) that allows the company to bring resolution to ongoing litigation. Cardinal Health agreed to a two-year suspension of its Lakeland, Fla., distribution center's DEA registration to ship controlled medicines from this facility and to improve certain anti-diversion procedures. The Lakeland distribution center will remain open, and all other operations at the facility will continue. The DEA also confirmed it is planning no further administrative actions at other Cardinal Health facilities.
DUBLIN, Ohio, May 15, 2012
"This agreement allows us to put this matter behind us, and just as important, will clear the way for a more productive dialogue about how we and others in the health care and regulatory community can work together to prevent the abuse and misuse of prescription drugs," said George Barrett, chairman and CEO of Cardinal Health.
Cardinal Health will continue its efforts to help stop prescription drug abuse.
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $103 billion that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care. As the business behind health care, Cardinal Health helps , , and focus on patient care while . Cardinal Health is an essential link in the health care supply chain, providing and to more than 60,000 locations each day. The company is also a leading manufacturer of medical and surgical products, including , s and products. In addition, the company supports the growing diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to and operating the nation's largest that dispense products to aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease. Ranked #21 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health worldwide. More information about the company may be found at and on Twitter.
health care services company
pharmacies
hospitals
ambulatory surgery centers
physician offices
reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality
pharmaceuticals
medical products
gloves
urgical apparel
fluid management
clinical laboratories
network of radiopharmacies
employs more than 30,000 people
cardinalhealth.com
@CardinalHealth
 


