FILE:CAH/CAH-8K-20121030070604.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
Current Report
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
October 30, 2012
Cardinal Health, Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instructions A.2. below):
    Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d2(b))
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On
October 30, 2012
, Cardinal Health, Inc. (the "Company") issued a news release announcing its results for the quarter ended
September 30, 2012
. A copy of the news release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Item 7.01: Regulation FD Disclosure
During a conference call scheduled to be held at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time on
October 30, 2012
, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will discuss the Company's results for the quarter ended
September 30, 2012
and outlook for the fiscal year ending
June 30, 2013
. The slide presentation for the conference call will be available on the Investors page at
www.cardinalhealth.com
. An audio replay of the conference call also will be available on the Investors page at
www.cardinalhealth.com
.
Item 9.01: Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
2
Signatures
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
3
Exhibit Index
4

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media:    Debbie Mitchell
(614)757-6225
debbie.mitchell@cardinalhealth.com
 
Investors:    Sally Curley
(614) 757-7115
sally.curley@cardinalhealth.com
CARDINAL HEALTH REPORTS
FISCAL 2013 FIRST-QUARTER
RESULTS
DUBLIN, Ohio, Oct. 30, 2012
- Cardinal Health today reported fiscal year 2013 first-quarter revenue of $25.9 billion and an 11 percent increase in non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations to $0.81.
In addition, the company reaffirmed its fiscal 2013 outlook for non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations of $3.35 to $3.50.
We were pleased to report a solid beginning to our fiscal 2013. As we had expected, revenue was down, as a result of the pharmaceutical industry's wave of brand-to-generic conversions. Our margin expansion continued to be strong, led by our Pharmaceutical segment and fueled by excellent contribution from our generic programs, said George Barrett, chairman and chief executive officer of Cardinal Health. Our Medical segment started the year more slowly than we planned, largely due to lighter than expected procedure volumes and some continued operational cleanup of our major systems and process transformation. We continue to target double digit segment profit growth for our Medical segment for fiscal year 2013.
The just-announced decision to increase the dividend by another 16 percent underscores our commitment to a differentiated dividend. This adds to the 10.5 percent increase realized in July, bringing our anticipated annualized payout ratio to over 30 percent of our fiscal 2013 outlook for non-GAAP EPS. Combined with the $200 million in share repurchases completed year-to-date in fiscal 2013, these actions reinforce our commitment to returning capital to shareholders while driving the underlying growth in the business, he continued.
Q1 FY13
SUMMARY
SEGMENT RESULTS
Pharmaceutical segment
As expected, revenue for the Pharmaceutical segment declined 4 percent to $23.5 billion, driven primarily by brand-to-generic conversions, partially offset by sales to new customers within pharmaceutical distribution and higher specialty solutions volume. Segment profit increased 10 percent to $400 million, with the growth primarily reflecting contribution from our generics programs.
Medical segment
Revenue for the Medical segment was up 1 percent to $2.4 billion. Last year's acquisition of Futuremed and growth in our preferred products was partially offset by one fewer sales day and lower sales to existing customers due in part to lower-than-expected procedural volume in the hospital market. Segment profit declined 6 percent to $74 million primarily driven by the volume softness and the net impact of the information systems-related issues.
Cardinal Health
Page
2
ADDITIONAL FIRST-QUARTER AND RECENT HIGHLIGHTS
CONFERENCE CALL
Cardinal Health will host a webcast and conference call today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time to discuss first-quarter results. To access the call and corresponding slide presentation, go to the Investors page at
cardinalhealth.com
. The call also can be accessed by dialing 224.357.2209. There is no access code for the call. Presentation slides and an audio replay will be archived on the website after the conclusion of the meeting. The audio replay will also be available until Nov. 30 by dialing 855.859.2056 or 404.537.3406, access code 35940715.
UPCOMING EVENTS
At these events, Cardinal Health will discuss the companys diverse products and services, company performance and strategies for continued growth. To access more details and live webcasts of these events, go to the Investors page at
cardinalhealth.com
.
About Cardinal Health
Headquartered in Dublin, Ohio, Cardinal Health, Inc. (NYSE: CAH) is a $108 billion
health care services company
that improves the cost-effectiveness of health care. As the business behind health care, Cardinal Health helps
pharmacies
,
hospitals
,
ambulatory surgery centers
and
physician offices
focus on patient care while
reducing costs, enhancing efficiency and improving quality
. Cardinal Health is an essential link in the health care supply chain, providing
pharmaceuticals
and
medical products
to more than 60,000 locations each day. The company is also a leading manufacturer of medical and surgical products, including
gloves
,
surgical apparel
and
fluid management
products. In addition, the company supports the growing diagnostic industry by supplying medical products to
clinical laboratories
and operating the nation's largest
network of radiopharmacies
that dispense products to aid in the early diagnosis and treatment of disease. Ranked #21 on the Fortune 500, Cardinal Health
employs more than 30,000 people
worldwide. More information about the company may be found at
cardinalhealth.com
and
@CardinalHealth
on Twitter.
Cardinal Health uses its website as a channel of distribution for material company information. Important information, including news releases, analyst presentations and financial information regarding Cardinal Health is routinely posted and accessible on the Investors page at
cardinalhealth.com
.
Cautions Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements addressing expectations, prospects, estimates and other matters that are dependent upon future events or developments. These statements may be identified by words such as "expect," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "believe," "will," "should," "could," "would," "project," "continue," likely, and similar expressions, and include statements reflecting future results or guidance, statements of outlook and expense accruals. These matters are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected, anticipated or implied. These risks and uncertainties include competitive pressures in Cardinal Health's various lines of business; the loss of one or more key customer or supplier relationships or changes to the terms of those relationships, including our relationships with CVS Caremark Corporation and Walgreen Co.; the timing of generic and branded pharmaceutical introductions and the frequency or rate of pharmaceutical price appreciation or deflation; uncertainties due to government health care reform including federal health care reform legislation; changes in the distribution patterns or reimbursement rates for health care products and services; the effects of any investigation or action by any regulatory authority; changes in the cost of commodities such as oil-based resins, cotton, latex and diesel fuel; uncertainties concerning Cardinal Health's ability to achieve the expected benefits of its Medical segment's business transformation project; and with respect to future dividends, the decision by Cardinal Health's board of directors to declare such dividends, which decision will depend on Cardinal Health's surplus, earnings, cash flows, financial condition and prospects at the time any such action is considered. Cardinal Health is subject to additional risks and uncertainties described in Cardinal Health's Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and Form 8-K reports and exhibits to those reports. This news release reflects management's views as of
October 30, 2012
. Except to the extent required by applicable law, Cardinal Health undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Schedule 1
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Unaudited)
Schedule 2
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
Schedule 3
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
Schedule 4
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Total Company Business Analysis
Refer to the GAAP/Non-GAAP reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the Non-GAAP balances.
Schedule 5
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Segment Business Analysis
Refer to definitions for an explanation of calculations.
Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2012 was
$25,889 million
, which included total segment revenue of
$25,891 million
and Corporate revenue of
$(2) million
. Total consolidated revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2011 was
$26,792 million
, which included total segment revenue of
$26,798 million
and Corporate revenue of
$(6) million
. Corporate revenue consists primarily of elimination of inter-segment revenue.
Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2012 were
$457 million
, which included total segment profit of
$474 million
and Corporate costs of
$(17) million
. Total consolidated operating earnings for the three months ended September 30, 2011 were
$412 million
, which included total segment profit of
$442 million
and Corporate costs of
$(30) million
. Corporate includes, among other things, restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on disposal of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and certain investment spending that are not allocated to the segments.
Schedule 6
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Schedule of Notable Items
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
Schedule 7
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Asset Management Analysis
Refer to the GAAP/Non-GAAP reconciliation for definitions and calculations supporting the Non-GAAP balances. Refer to DSO, DIOH and DPO for definitions and calculations.
Schedule 8
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation
The sum of the components may not equal the total due to rounding.
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
Schedule 9
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
Schedule 10
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
GAAP / Non-GAAP Reconciliation
We apply varying tax rates depending on the item's nature and tax jurisdiction where it is incurred.
Forward-Looking Non-GAAP Financial Measures
We present non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and non-GAAP effective tax rate from continuing operations (and presentations derived from these financial measures, including per share calculations) on a forward-looking basis. The most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures are earnings from continuing operations and effective tax rate from continuing operations. We are unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of these forward-looking non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP measures because we cannot reliably forecast restructuring and employee severance, acquisition-related costs, impairments and loss on disposal of assets, litigation (recoveries)/charges, net, and other spin-off costs, which are difficult to predict and estimate and are primarily dependent on future events. Please note that the unavailable reconciling items could significantly impact our future financial results.
Schedule 11
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Days Sales Outstanding (DSO)
:
trade receivables, net divided by (quarterly revenue divided by 90 days). Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we changed our method of calculating DSO in order to align it with the 90-day convention that we use in the calculation of Days Inventory on Hand and Days Payable Outstanding. Prior to this change we calculated DSO by dividing trade receivable, net by (monthly revenue divided by 30 days). In connection with this change, we have revised prior year information to conform to the new method of calculating DSO.
Days Inventory on Hand
: inventory divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days). Chargeback billings are the difference between a products wholesale acquisition cost and the contract price established between pharmaceutical manufacturers and the end customer.
Days Payable Outstanding
: accounts payable divided by ((quarterly cost of products sold plus chargeback billings) divided by 90 days).
Net Working Capital Days
: days sales outstanding plus days inventory on hand less days payable outstanding. To conform to the new method of calculating DSO, we have revised prior year information.
Cardinal Health, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Use of Non-GAAP Measures
This earnings release contains financial measures that are not calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In general, the measures exclude items and charges that (i) management does not believe reflect Cardinal Health, Inc.'s (the "Company") core business and relate more to strategic, multi-year corporate activities; or (ii) relate to activities or actions that may have occurred over multiple or in prior periods without predictable trends. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures internally to evaluate the Companys performance, evaluate the balance sheet, engage in financial and operational planning and determine incentive compensation.
Management provides these non-GAAP financial measures to investors as supplemental metrics to assist readers in assessing the effects of items and events on its financial and operating results and in comparing the Companys performance to that of its competitors. However, the non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, and the financial results calculated in accordance with GAAP and reconciliations to those financial statements set forth above should be carefully evaluated.
Definitions
Debt
: long-term obligations plus short-term borrowings.
Debt to Total Capital
: debt divided by (debt plus total shareholders equity).
Net Debt
: a Non-GAAP measure defined as debt minus (cash and equivalents).
Net Debt to Capital
: a Non-GAAP measure defined as net debt divided by (net debt plus total shareholders equity).
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations and growth rate calculation
1
: non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations divided by diluted weighted-average shares outstanding.
Non-GAAP Earnings from Continuing Operations and growth rate calculation
: earnings from continuing operations excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance
2
, (2) acquisition-related costs
3
, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets
4
, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net
5
and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs, each net of tax.
Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate from Continuing Operations
: (provision for income taxes adjusted for (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs) divided by (earnings before income taxes and discontinued operations adjusted for the same five items).
Non-GAAP Operating Earnings and growth rate calculation
: operating earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs.
Non-GAAP Return on Equity
: (annualized net earnings excluding (1) restructuring and employee severance, (2) acquisition-related costs, (3) impairments and loss on disposal of assets, (4) litigation (recoveries)/charges, net and (5) Other Spin-Off Costs, each net of tax) and divided by average shareholders equity.
Other Spin-Off Costs
: costs incurred in connection with our Spin-Off of CareFusion which are included in distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses.
Return on Equity
: annualized net earnings divided by average shareholders equity.
Revenue Mix
: segment revenue divided by total segment revenue for all segments.
Segment Profit
: segment revenue minus (segment cost of products sold and segment distribution, selling, general and administrative expenses).
Segment Profit Margin
: segment profit divided by segment revenue.
Segment Profit Mix
: segment profit divided by total segment profit for all segments.


