Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward looking Information Sprint includes certain estimates, projections and other forward looking statements in its reports and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward looking statements. These statements reflect managements judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. With respect to these forward looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, demand for our products and services, pricing, costs to acquire customers and provide service, timing and cost of planned capital expenditures, and general economic conditions. Future performance cannot be ensured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: . extent and duration of the current economic downturn; . the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which Sprint operates; . the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new markets necessary to provide nationwide or global services; . adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by ratings agencies; . the ability of the PCS Group to continue to grow a significant market presence; . the ability of the PCS Group to improve its profitability and reduce its cash requirements; . the effects of mergers and consolidations within the telecommunications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the telecommunications industry; . the uncertainties related to the outcome of bankruptcies affecting the telecommunications industry; . the impact to the PCS Groups network coverage due to financial difficulties of third party affiliates; . the uncertainties related to Sprints investments; . the impact of any unusual items resulting from ongoing evaluations of Sprints business strategies; . the impact of new and emerging technologies on Sprints business; . unexpected results of litigation filed against Sprint; . delays associated with hiring a qualified individual to replace Sprints chief executive officer; . the possibility of one or more of the markets in which Sprint competes being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes, including the impact of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), or other external factors over which Sprint has no control; and . other risks referenced from time to time in Sprints filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The words "estimate," "project," "intend," "expect," "believe" and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are found throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Sprint is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report or unforeseen events. Definitions of Operating and Non GAAP Financial Measures Sprint provides readers financial measures generated using generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and using adjustments to GAAP (non GAAP). The non GAAP financial measures reflect industry conventions, or 24 standard measures of liquidity, profitability or performance commonly used by the investment community for comparability purposes. The non GAAP financial measures and the operating measures used in this document include the following: Free cash flow is defined as cash generated from operations less net cash requirements for capital expenditures, other investment activities and dividends. Currently, Sprint also includes cash generated from discontinued operations. EBITDA is measured as operating income or loss plus depreciation and amortization. Customer churn is used by the PCS Group to define the ratio of customers discontinuing PCS service over total average subscribers for the period. ARPU (Average monthly revenue per user) is used by the PCS Group to define a measure of average monthly service revenue per user. CCPU (Cash cost per user) is used by the PCS Group to define a measure of the cash costs to operate the business on a per user basis consisting of costs of service revenues, service delivery and other general and administrative costs divided by average subscribers. CPGA (Cost per gross addition) is used by the PCS Group to define a measure of the sales and marketing efforts computed as the costs of acquiring a new subscriber, including equipment subsidies and marketing costs, divided by handset activations. General Sprint is a global communications company and a leader in integrating long distance, local service, and wireless communications. Sprint is also one of the largest carriers of Internet traffic using its tier one Internet protocol network, which provides connectivity to any point on the Internet either through its own network or via direct connections with other backbone providers. Sprint is the nations third largest provider of long distance services based on revenues and operates nationwide, all digital long distance and tier one Internet protocol networks using fiber optic and electronic technology. In addition, the local division currently serves approximately 8.1 million access lines in 18 states. Sprint also operates a 100% digital PCS, wireless network with licenses to provide service to the entire United States population using a single frequency band and a single technology. In November 1998, Sprints shareholders approved the allocation of all of Sprints assets and liabilities into two groups, the FON Group and the PCS Group, as well as the creation of the FON stock and the PCS stock. In addition, Sprint purchased the remaining ownership interests in Sprint Spectrum Holding Company, L.P. and PhillieCo, L.P. (together, Sprint PCS), other than a minority interest in Cox Communications PCS, L.P. (Cox PCS), which is now called Sprint Telephony PCS, L.P. Sprint acquired these ownership interests from Tele Communications, Inc., Comcast Corporation and Cox Communications, Inc. (the Cable Partners). In exchange, Sprint issued the Cable Partners special low vote PCS shares and warrants to acquire additional PCS shares. Sprint also issued the Cable Partners shares of a new series of preferred stock convertible into PCS shares. The purchase of the Cable Partners interests is referred to as the PCS Restructuring. In the 1999 second quarter, Cox Communications, Inc. exercised a put option requiring Sprint to purchase the remaining 40.8% interest in Cox PCS. Sprint issued additional low vote PCS shares in exchange for this interest. Also in November 1998, Sprint reclassified each of its publicly traded common shares into one share of FON stock and 1/2 share of PCS stock. This recapitalization was tax free to shareholders. In addition, the Class A common shares owned by FT and DT were reclassified into shares representing both FON stock and PCS stock. These transactions are referred to as the Recapitalization. In connection with the PCS Restructuring, FT and DT purchased 5.1 million additional PCS shares (pre split basis). FT no longer holds FON shares, and DT no longer holds either FON or PCS shares. 25 Operating Segments Sprints business is divided into three lines of business: the global markets division, the local division, and the PCS wireless telephony products and services business. Board Discretion Regarding Tracking Stocks FON common stock and PCS common stock are intended to reflect the financial results and economic value of the FON and PCS Groups. However, they are classes of common stock of Sprint, not of the group they are intended to track. Accordingly, FON and PCS shareholders are subject to the risks related to an equity investment in Sprint and all of Sprints businesses, assets and liabilities. Shares of FON common stock and PCS common stock do not represent a direct legal interest in the assets and liabilities allocated to either group, but rather represent a direct equity interest in our assets and liabilities as a whole. Sprints board of directors has the discretion to, among other things, make operating and financial decisions that could favor one group over the other and, subject to the restrictions in Sprints articles of incorporation, to change the allocation of the assets and liabilities that comprise each of the FON Group and the PCS Group without stockholder approval. Under the applicable corporate law, Sprints Board owes its fiduciary duties to all of Sprints shareholders and there is no board of directors that owes separate duties to the holders of either the FON common stock or the PCS common stock. The Tracking Stock Policies provide that the Board, in resolving material matters in which the holders of FON common stock and PCS common stock have potentially divergent interests, will act in the best interests of Sprint and all of its common shareholders after giving fair consideration to the potentially divergent interests of the holders of the separate classes of Sprint common stock. These policies may be changed by the Board without shareholder approval. Given the Boards discretion in these matters, it may be difficult to assess the future prospects of each group based on past performance. Critical Accounting Policies The fundamental objective of financial reporting is to provide useful information that allows a reader to comprehend the business activities of Sprint. To aid in that understanding, management has identified Sprints "critical accounting policies". These policies are considered "critical" because they have the potential to have a material impact on Sprints financial statements, and because they require judgements and estimation due to the uncertainty involved in measuring, at a specific point in time, events which are continuous in nature. .. Long lived Asset Recovery A significant portion of Sprints total assets consist of long lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment ("PP&E") and definite life intangibles, as well as goodwill and indefinite life intangibles. Changes in technology or in Sprints intended use of these assets, as well as changes in broad economic or industry factors, may cause the estimated period of use or the value of these assets to change. Depreciable Lives of Assets Sprint performs annual internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of depreciable lives for each category of PP&E. These studies utilize models, which take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, and assumptions about technology evolution, and use in certain instances actuarially determined probabilities to calculate remaining life of our asset base. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to the establishment of asset depreciable lives is a "critical accounting estimate" because: (1) it requires Company management to make assumptions about technology evolution and competitive uses of assets, and (2) the impact of changes in these assumptions could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. Managements assumptions about technology and its future development require significant judgement because the timing and impacts of technology advances are difficult to predict, and actual experience has varied from previous assumptions and could continue to do so. If Sprints studies had resulted in a depreciable rate that was 5% higher or lower than those used in the preparation of Sprints consolidated financial statements, recorded depreciation expense would have been impacted by approximately $260 million. The impact to FON Group depreciation expense would be approximately $140 million and the impact to PCS Group depreciation expense would be approximately $120 million. 26 Property, Plant and Equipment and Definite Life Intangibles Impairment PP&E and definite life intangibles are evaluated for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Accounting standards require that if an impairment indicator is present, the Company must assess whether the carrying amount of the asset is unrecoverable by estimating the sum of the future cash flows expected to result from the asset, undiscounted and without interest charges. If the carrying amount is less than the recoverable amount, an impairment charge must be recognized, based on the fair value of the asset. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to asset impairment is a "critical accounting estimate" because: (1) it requires Company management to make assumptions about future revenues and costs of sales over the life of the asset; and (2) the impact of recognizing an impairment could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. Managements assumptions about future revenues require significant judgement because actual revenues have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so. In estimating future revenues, we use our internal business forecasts. We develop our forecasts based on recent revenue data for existing products and services, planned timing of new products and services, and other industry and economic factors. When indicators are present, Sprint tests for impairment. In 2002, this resulted in a total of $198 million of PP&E being impaired. FON Group recorded $156 million for network asset impairments and PCS Group recorded $42 million for abandoned network projects. These impairments represent less than one percent of the December 31, 2002 consolidated net PP&E for Sprint. Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is tested by comparing net book value of the reporting unit (identified as Sprints operating segments) to fair value. Indefinite life intangibles are tested by comparing book value to estimated fair value. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to goodwill and indefinite life intangibles is a "critical accounting estimate" because (1) it requires Company management to make assumptions about fair values, and (2) the impact of recognizing an impairment could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. Managements assumptions about fair values require significant judgement because broad economic factors, industry factors and technology considerations can result in variable and volatile fair values. Management completed impairment analyses on both goodwill and indefinite life intangibles in the fourth quarter of 2002. These tests were performed internally and, in the case of certain intangibles, by a third party valuation appraisal company. In each instance, as of December 31, 2002, no impairment existed. .. Employee Benefit Plan Assumptions Retirement benefits are a significant cost of doing business for Sprint and yet represent obligations that will be settled far in the future. Retirement benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of the future benefit costs over the employees approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made by the Company. The accounting requires that management make assumptions regarding such variables as the return on assets, the discount rate and future health care costs. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligation and periodic benefit cost incurred by the Company. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to retirement benefit accounting is a "critical accounting estimate" because: (1) it requires Company management to make assumptions about discount rates, future health care costs, and future return on assets funding the obligation; and (2) the impact of changes in actual performance versus these estimates would have on the projected benefit obligation reported on our balance sheet and the benefit cost could be material. The method of determining pension obligations requires assumptions concerning market performance. Market performance has fluctuated in the recent past and could have continued volatility in the future. In selecting these assumptions, Sprint uses historical experience as well as objective indices as benchmarks, and tests the benchmarks against historical industry data on these assumptions provided by an independent actuary. An increase in the discount rate or in the expected return on assets would reduce the reported obligation. In 27 contrast, if the discount rate in 2002 used in determining this obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $162 million increase in the obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a $19 million increase in the benefit costs. Similarly, if the expected return on assets assumption was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $8 million increase in the obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a similar increase to benefit costs. Reasonable changes in the estimate of health care cost assumptions would not materially affect the obligation or related benefit costs for a single year. .. Allocation Policies between Tracking Stocks As discussed previously, the FON common stock is intended to reflect the financial results and economic value of the FON Group and the PCS common stock is intended to reflect the financial results and economic value of the PCS Group. The FON common stock and the PCS common stock are both classes of the common stock of Sprint, and together, the groups reflect 100% of Sprints business activities. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to allocation policies is a "critical accounting estimate" because: (1) it requires Company management to make assumptions about market interest rates and group use of shared costs; and (2) the impact that recognizing a change in this allocation would have on the net assets, use of resources or operating results of either group could be material. Allocation policies regarding shared activities impact the business results of the FON Group and the PCS Group. Sprint performs internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of assignment of costs when direct assignment is not possible or practical. The methods used for indirect assignment include time studies, and factors related to marketing or headcount studies. Sprint manages the financing activities of the groups on a centralized basis. Debt incurred by Sprint on behalf of the groups is specifically allocated to and reflected in the financial statements of the applicable group. Interest expense is assigned to the PCS Group based on an estimated rate that is substantially equal to the rate it would be able to obtain from third parties as a direct or indirect wholly owned Sprint subsidiary, but without the benefit of any guarantee by Sprint or any member of the FON Group. Additionally, Sprints centralized cash management program allows one group to advance funds to the other group. These advances are accounted for as short term borrowings between the groups and bear interest at a rate that is substantially equal to the rate that group would be able to obtain from third parties on a short term basis. Management utilizes credit rating agencies and investment banks to provide an objective basis for determining appropriate assumptions concerning market interest rates. Sprint uses this information in arriving at the assumptions used to determine our allocations. The allocation of assets, financial resources and certain expenses require judgement by management and the allocation methods used are subject to the discretion of the board of directors in its fulfillment of its fiduciary duties to all of Sprints shareholders. Holders of FON stock and PCS stock may have interests that differ from or conflict with the interests of holders of the other stock. Our tracking stock policies provide that our board of directors, in resolving material matters in which holders of FON stock and PCS stock have potentially divergent interests, will act in the best interest of Sprint and all of its common stockholders after giving fair consideration to the potentially divergent interests of the holders of the separate classes of common stock. .. Tax Valuation Allowances Sprint is required to estimate the amount of tax payable or refundable for the current year and the deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in its financial statements or tax returns for each taxing jurisdiction in which it operates. This process requires Sprints management to make assessments regarding the timing and probability of the ultimate tax impact. Sprint records valuation allowances on deferred tax assets to reflect the expected realizable future tax benefits. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, significant changes in the jurisdictions in which Sprint operates, Sprints inability to generate sufficient future taxable income or unpredicted results from the final determination of each years liability by taxing authorities. These changes can have a significant impact on the financial position of the Company. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to establishing tax valuation allowances is a "critical accounting estimate" because: (1) it requires Company management to make assessments about the timing of future events, including the probability of expected future taxable income and available tax planning opportunities, and (2) the impact changes in actual performance versus these estimates could have on the realization of tax benefit as reported in our results of operations could be material. Managements assumptions require significant judgement because actual performance has fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so. 28 Sprint currently carries an income tax valuation allowance of $573 million on its books. This amount includes a valuation allowance for the total tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards which were acquired in connection with certain acquisitions. The remainder of the valuation allowance relates to state net operating loss carryforwards. Assumption changes which result in a reduction of expected benefits from realization of state net operating loss carryforwards by 10% would increase our valuation allowance by $27 million for PCS Group and $4 million for FON Group. .. Revenue Recognition Policies Sprint recognizes operating revenues as services are rendered or as products are delivered to customers in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101. In connection with recording revenue, estimates and assumptions are required in determining the expected conversion of the revenue streams to cash collected. The revenue estimation process requires management to make assumptions based on historical results, future expectations, the economic and competitive environment, changes in the credit worthiness of our customers, and other relevant factors. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projection of cash collected and the periodic revenue stream recognized by the Company. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to the establishment of revenue and receivable reserves and the associated provisions in the results of operations is a "critical accounting estimate" because: (1) it requires Company management to make assumptions about future billing adjustments for disputes with customers, unauthorized usage, future returns on asset sales and future access adjustments for disputes with competitive local exchange carriers and inter exchange carriers, as well as the future economic viability of our customer base; and (2) the impact of changes in actual performance versus these estimates would have on the accounts receivable reported on our balance sheet and the results reported in our statements of operations could be material. In selecting these assumptions, Sprint uses historical trending of write offs, industry norms, regulatory decisions and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions which might impact the collectibility of accounts. General Overview of the Sprint FON Group The FON Group is comprised of the global markets division, the local division and other businesses consisting primarily of wholesale distribution of telecommunications products. The global markets division is the nations third largest provider of long distance services based on revenues. The activities of the local division include local exchange communications and consumer long distance services used by customers within Sprints local franchise territories. Global Markets Division The global markets division provides a broad suite of communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice; data communications using various protocols such as Internet protocol (IP) and frame relay (a data service that transfers packets of data over Sprints network), and managed network services. In addition, the global markets division provides web and applications hosting, consulting services, colocation services and international data communications. The global markets division also includes the operating results of the wireless high speed data and cable TV service operations of the broadband fixed wireless companies. In 2001, Sprint announced it would halt further deployment of Multipoint Multichannel Distribution Services (MMDS) services using current line of sight technology. Current video and high speed data customers continue to receive service. Sprint is pursuing alternative strategies with respect to the spectrum leases and licenses. This division also includes the FON Groups investments in EarthLink, Inc., an Internet service provider; Call Net, a long distance provider in Canada; Intelig Telecommunicacoes, Ltda., a long distance provider in Brazil; and certain other telecommunications investments and other ventures. Local Division The local division consists mainly of regulated local phone companies serving approximately 8.1 million access lines in 18 states. The local division provides local voice and data services, including digital subscriber line (DSL), 29 for customers within its franchise territories, access by phone customers and other carriers to the local divisions local network, nationwide long distance services to residential customers located within its franchise territories, sales of telecommunications equipment, and other services within specified calling areas to residential and business customers. DSL enables high speed transmission of data over existing copper telephone lines. General Overview of the Sprint PCS Group The PCS Group includes Sprints wireless PCS operations. It operates a 100% digital PCS wireless network with licenses to provide service to the entire United States population using a single frequency and a single technology. At year end 2002, the PCS Group, together with third party affiliates, operated PCS systems in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas. The PCS Groups service, including third party affiliates, now reaches a quarter billion people. The PCS Group provides nationwide service through a combination of: . operating its own digital network in major U.S. metropolitan areas using code division multiple access (CDMA), which is a digital spread spectrum wireless technology that allows a large number of users to access a single frequency band by assigning a code to all speech bits, sending a scrambled transmission of the encoded speech over the air and reassembling the speech into its original format, . affiliating with other companies that use CDMA, mainly in and around smaller U.S. metropolitan areas, . roaming on other providers analog cellular networks using multi mode and multi band handsets, and . roaming on other providers digital networks that use CDMA. Sprint launched nationwide third generation (3G) capability in the 2002 third quarter. This capability allows more efficient utilization of the network when voice calls are made using 3G enabled handsets. It also provides enhanced data services. The service, marketed as "PCS Vision," allows consumer and business customers to use their Vision enabled PCS devices to check personal and corporate e mail, take and receive pictures, play games with full color graphics and polyphonic sounds and browse the Internet wirelessly with speeds up to 144 kbps (with average speeds of 50 to 70 kbps). The PCS Group supplements its own network through affiliation arrangements with other companies that use CDMA. Under these arrangements, these companies offer PCS services under the Sprint brand name on CDMA networks built and operated at their own expense. Several of these affiliates are experiencing financial difficulties, are evaluating restructuring activities and could face bankruptcy. In February 2003, one affiliate filed for bankruptcy protection. The PCS Group also includes its investment in Virgin Mobile, USA, a joint venture to market wireless services. This investment is accounted for using the equity method. The PCS Group also provides PCS services to companies that resell PCS services to their customers on a retail basis under their own brand. These companies bear the costs of acquisition, billing and customer service. The wireless industry, including the PCS Group, typically generates a higher number of subscriber additions and handset sales in the fourth quarter of each year compared to the remaining quarters. This is due to the use of retail distribution, which is dependent on the holiday shopping season; timing of new products and service introductions; and aggressive marketing and sales promotions. Consolidated Results of Operations Total net operating revenues were as follows: 2002 2001 2000 (millions) FON Group $15,182 $16,368 $17,220 PCS Group 12,074 9,725 6,341 Intergroup eliminations (622) (578) (416) Net operating revenues $26,634 $25,515 $23,145 30 Income (Loss) from continuing operations was as follows: 2002 2001 2000 (millions) FON Group $1,046 $ (296) $ 1,136 PCS Group (578) (1,249) (1,868) Intergroup eliminations (7) Income (Loss) from continuing operations $ 468 $(1,552) $ (732) Income (loss) from continuing operations as presented in the above table includes the after tax impacts of the charges discussed in the following paragraphs. In the 2002 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded restructuring charges and asset impairments of $154 million representing consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, impairment of a network asset, abandoned network project costs and additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. Also included in 2002 were the expected loss on receivables due to the bankruptcy declaration of WorldCom of $23 million, a third quarter net restructuring and asset impairment charge of $76 million, a gain on the sale of the PCS Groups investment in Pegaso of $67 million, a gain from the sale of customer contracts of $25 million, the write down of an investment due to declining market value of $241 million, and a tax benefit related to capital losses not previously recognizable of $292 million. Excluding these charges, income from continuing operations for 2002 would have been $578 million. As a result of the July 2002 WorldCom Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing, Sprint continues to evaluate its risks regarding its WorldCom receivables and its ongoing business relationship with WorldCom. In addition to being a Sprint customer, WorldCom, under various long term lease and services agreements, provides Sprint access to network facilities that compose approximately 20% of Sprints long distance fiber network and a larger percentage of network traffic. These network facilities are also shared or utilized by WorldCom. If WorldCom failed to meet its commitments under these agreements, Sprint would have to pursue alternative strategies to provide this capacity that could result in delays, interruptions or additional expenses associated with the offering of our services. Sprint does not anticipate, or have indications, that WorldCom does not intend to meet its commitments. In the 2001 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded a restructuring charge and asset impairment of $1,136 million representing the termination of Sprint ION, as well as additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. Additionally, in the 2001 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded a litigation charge of $15 million. Also included in 2001 were a write down of the FON Groups equity method investment in Intelig of $157 million which had an other than temporary decline in market value, a loss on the sale of a portion of the FON Groups investment in EarthLink of $8 million, a benefit plan curtailment gain of $75 million and net gains from other investment activities of $9 million. Excluding these charges, loss from continuing operations for 2001 would have been $320 million. In the 2000 fourth quarter, Sprint completed analyses of the valuation of various FON Group assets and equity method investments resulting from its reassessment of the FON Groups business strategies in response to changes in the overall telecommunications industry. These analyses resulted in charges of $152 million primarily related to a write down of goodwill associated with the FON Groups Paranet operations, $87 million for the write down of the FON Groups equity method investment in Call Net, which had an other than temporary decline in market value, and $22 million for the write down of certain FON Group investment securities, which had an other than temporary decline in market value. Also included in 2000 were charges of $121 million for costs associated with the terminated WorldCom merger, net gains of $17 million from investment activities in the FON Group, and an $18 million gain from the sale of customers and network infrastructure to a PCS third party affiliate. Excluding these charges, loss from continuing operations for 2000 would have been $385 million. 31 Segmental Results of Operations Sprints business is divided into three lines of business: the global markets division, the local division, and the PCS wireless telephony products and services business. Global Markets Division 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Net operating revenues Voice $5,768 $ 6,610 $ 7,068 Data 1,847 1,857 1,742 Internet 1,009 964 809 Other 319 485 909 Total net operating revenues 8,943 9,916 10,528 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 5,015 6,004 5,558 Selling, general and administrative 2,455 2,955 3,026 Depreciation and amortization 1,479 1,318 1,121 Restructuring and asset impairment 194 1,688 238 Total operating expenses 9,143 11,965 9,943 Operating income (loss) $ (200) $(2,049) $ 585 Operating margin NM NM 5.6% Capital expenditures $ 733 $ 3,580 $ 2,294 The global markets division faced significant challenges in 2002. The economic downturn coupled with industry wide pricing pressures and a decline in professional services, legacy data services, and other revenues contributed to a 10% decline in net operating revenues and an operating loss for the year. Throughout 2002, the global markets division focused on cost management. In 2002, the global markets division experienced double digit reductions in cost of services and products and selling, general, and administrative expenses. In 2002, Sprint undertook initiatives to improve operational efficiency and reduce costs. These actions, along with an adjustment to finalize the 2001 restructuring, resulted in a $194 million net charge to the global markets divisions operations. Sprint expects revenues to be down a mid single digit rate in 2003 as the division continues to be impacted by lower wholesale results, RBOC entry and re pricing of expiring contracts. These declines are expected to be somewhat offset by business won from distressed carriers. Net Operating Revenues Net operating revenues decreased 10% in 2002 and 6% in 2001. Minute growth of 5% in 2002 and 20% in 2001, driven in part by the increase in business minutes sold to the PCS Group, was more than offset by the highly competitive pricing pressures on voice services. The decrease in net operating revenues also reflects year over year declines in legacy data services and other services. Voice Revenues Voice revenues decreased 13% in 2002 and 6% in 2001. The 2002 decrease is a result of wireless and e mail substitution, RBOC entry and business voice contract renewals occurring at lower prices. Results were also impacted by the loss of a single large low margin wholesale customer and the termination of an airline partnership. The 2001 decrease was largely due to more competitive pricing and wireless substitution. Data Revenues Data revenues reflect sales of current generation data services including asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) and frame relay services. These revenues were flat in 2002 and increased 7% in 2001. Results in 2002 were flat due to increases in both frame relay and ATM being offset by a decline in private line. Data revenues increased in 2001 due to increased sales in ATM. 32 Internet Revenues Internet revenues increased 5% in 2002 and 19% in 2001. The 2002 increase is a result of growth in dedicated IP revenues, partially offset by a decrease in dial IP revenues due to repricing of contracts, combined with strong annual growth in web hosting. The 2001 increase was due to growth in dedicated IP, web hosting, and security. Other Revenues Other revenues decreased 34% in 2002 and 47% in 2001. The 2002 decrease is primarily due to the sale of our consulting services business, Paranet, and declines in equipment sales. The 2001 decrease reflects lower cable capacity sales, as well as declines in legacy data services and other services. During the 2002, 2001 and 2000 periods, cable capacity sales and sales of ownership rights to transoceanic cable represented less than .02%, 0.2%, and 1% of global market divisions net operating revenues, respectively. These transactions were executed primarily with Global One, and were in accordance with our transition services agreement. Equipment sales completed in each of the periods discussed were routine in nature, were completed to support customer purchases of related telecommunications services, and represented less than 2%, 3%, and 6% of global market divisions net operating revenues for the 2002, 2001, and 2000 periods, respectively. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include interconnection costs paid to local phone companies, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by the divisions domestic customers, costs to operate and maintain the long distance network and the IP network, and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products decreased 16% in 2002 and increased 8% in 2001. The 2002 decrease was a result of regulatory rate reductions, decreased network operating costs derived from Sprints 2001 fourth quarter restructuring actions, favorable carrier access settlements, as well as other cost containment efforts, partially offset by volume growth. The 2001 increase was primarily due to a corresponding increase in call volumes, network costs of the long distance operation and costs associated with Sprint ION, partially offset by lower sales of ownership rights to capacity on transoceanic cable. The domestic rate reductions were generally due to the FCC mandated access rate reductions that took effect in July 2000, July 2001, and July 2002. Total costs of services and products for the global markets division were 56.1% of net operating revenues in 2002, 60.5% in 2001, and 52.8% in 2000. Excluding Sprint ION related costs, total costs of services and products for the global markets division were 56% of net operating revenue in 2002, 58.2% in 2001, and 50.5% in 2000. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense decreased 17% in 2002 and 2% in 2001. The 2002 decrease is related to restructuring efforts and tight management of discretionary expenses. The 2001 decrease was due to a reduction in advertising and promotion costs in both the consumer and business markets and a strong emphasis on cost control, partly offset by increased marketing and promotions of Internet services and an increase in bad debt expense primarily related to wholesale customers. The reserve for bad debts requires managements judgment and is based on customer specific indicators, as well as historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues was 3.5% in 2002, 3.8% in 2001, and 2.6% in 2000. Reserve for bad debt as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 14.9% in 2002, 12.7% in 2001, and 10.5% in 2000. Total SG&A expense for the global markets division was 27.5% of net operating revenues in 2002, 29.8% in 2001, and 28.7% in 2000. Excluding ION related costs, SG&A expense for the global markets division was 27.4% of net operating revenues in 2002, 27.9% in 2001, and 26.7% in 2000. 33 Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used in setting depreciable lives. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 12% in 2002 and 18% in 2001. The increases are attributable to an increased asset base to meet anticipated increases in demand for voice and data related services and other growth initiatives. Depreciation and amortization expense was 16.5% of net operating revenues in 2002, 13.3% in 2001, and 10.6% in 2000. Excluding Sprint ION related costs, depreciation and amortization expense for the global markets division was 16.5% of net operating revenues in 2002, 12.1% in 2001, and 9.9% in 2000. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In the 2002 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded a net restructuring charge of $57 million to the global markets division related to consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations as well as additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. Additionally, it recorded a network asset impairment related to the global markets division of $14 million. Sprint recorded a net restructuring charge and asset impairment of $123 million related to the global markets division in the 2002 third quarter. This consisted of a $202 million charge for the termination of high speed data services as well as additional steps to reduce operating costs. The charge was partially offset by a $79 million adjustment to finalize the restructuring charge taken in the 2001 fourth quarter to abandon the ION initiative and restructure operations in the global markets division. The 2001 fourth quarter actions, which resulted in a $1.7 billion charge to the global markets division, were taken in an effort to better focus on enterprise data and Internet services and to aggressively manage costs. For additional information see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Local Division 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Net operating revenues Local service $ 3,054 $ 2,939 $ 2,846 Network access 2,025 2,032 1,987 Long distance 628 731 717 Other 505 545 605 Total net operating revenues 6,212 6,247 6,155 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 1,900 1,955 1,965 Selling, general and administrative 1,269 1,280 1,288 Depreciation 1,157 1,120 1,139 Restructuring and asset impairment 56 109 Total operating expenses 4,382 4,464 4,392 Operating income $ 1,830 $ 1,783 $ 1,763 Operating margin 29.5% 28.5% 28.6% Capital expenditures $ 1,286 $ 1,337 $ 1,421 In 2002, the local division was impacted by the continued economic slow down, continued cable modem competition for high speed data in the consumer market, business customer data product competition in major geographic markets and wireless substitution resulting in a decline in access lines and minutes of use. Despite these pressures on revenue growth, the local division achieved improving operating results by effectively managing costs. In the 2002 fourth quarter, Sprint realigned its operations to reduce costs and increase its effectiveness. These actions resulted in a $53 million charge to the local divisions operations. Sprint expects that wireless substitution and broadband competition will continue to adversely impact access lines and minutes of use in 2003. However, revenues and operating income are expected to be at levels consistent with 2002. Beginning in July 2000, Sprint changed its transfer pricing for certain transactions between FON Group entities to more accurately reflect market pricing. The main effect of this change was a reduction in the local divisions "Net Operating Revenues Other Revenues." In addition, Sprints local division transferred a customer service and telemarketing organization to the PCS Group at the beginning of the 2000 second quarter. For comparative 34 purposes, the following discussion of local division results assumes the transfer pricing change and the transfer of the customer service and telemarketing organization occurred at the beginning of 2000. Adjusting for these changes, the net operating revenues would have been $6.1 billion and the operating margin would have been 28.4% in 2000. Net Operating Revenues Net operating revenues decreased less than 1% in 2002 and increased 2% in 2001. The slight decrease in 2002 was due to declines in long distance and equipment sales being partially offset by an increase in network based services. The increase in 2001 mainly reflects increased special access revenue and increased sales of network based local services such as Caller ID and Call Waiting. Sales of network based services and long distance services increased due to strong demand for bundled services which combine local service, network based features and long distance calling. Local Service Revenues Local service revenues, derived from local exchange services, grew 4% in 2002 and 3% in 2001 due to continued demand for network based services driven by the success of bundled offerings. The local division ended 2002 with just under 8.1 million switched access lines, a decrease of 1.7% from the prior year. Access lines also decreased 1.1% in 2001. The decreases in 2002 and 2001 were driven by the economic slowdown, wireless and cable substitution and losses to competitive local providers. Network Access Revenues Network access revenues, derived from long distance phone companies using the local network to complete calls, decreased less than 1% in 2002 and increased 2% in 2001. Special access services demonstrated strong growth in both 2001 and 2002. However, these gains were offset in 2002 by declines in switched access minutes of use and regulator mandated access rate reductions. Long Distance Revenues Long distance revenues are mainly derived from providing nationwide long distance services to residential customers within Sprints local franchise territories and other services within specified regional calling areas, or LATAs, to residential and business customers. These revenues decreased 14% in 2002 and increased 2% in 2001. The 2002 decrease reflects a decline in minutes of use as customers have shifted more of their communications to wireless, e mail and instant messaging. The 2001 increase reflects the success of bundled services, offset by a decline in intra LATA long distance services. Other Revenues Other revenues decreased 7% in 2002 and 2% in 2001. These decreases were driven by a decline in equipment sales of 14% in 2002 and 9% in 2001. The decreases in equipment sales were a result of both a planned shift in focus to selling higher margin products and the economic slowdown causing a reduction in customer demand for equipment. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include costs to operate and maintain the local network and costs of equipment sales. These costs decreased 3% in 2002 and were flat in 2001. In 2002, the decrease is driven mainly by a reduction in reciprocal compensation expense, lower access expense, reduced volume of equipment sales, and a decline in other taxes due to changes in certain state tax laws. In 2001, declines in equipment sales and the success of cost control initiatives were offset by increases in access expense. Costs of services and products were 30.6% of net operating revenues in 2002, 31.3% in 2001 and 31.9% in 2000. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Despite increases in bad debt expense, SG&A expense decreased 1% in 2002. In 2001, SG&A remained flat as a continuing emphasis on cost control was offset by an increase in bad debt expense. The reserve for bad debt requires managements judgment and is based on historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues was 35 2.6% in 2002, 2.5% in 2001 and 1.5% in 2000. Reserve for bad debt expense as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 13.9% in 2002, 6.9% in 2001, and 4.8% in 2000. In 2002, improved bad debt experience with end user customers was more than offset by the need to establish reserves for certain competitive local exchange carriers and long distance companies, including WorldCom, with financial difficulties. SG&A expense was 20.4% of net operating revenues in 2002, 20.5% in 2001, and 21.0% in 2000. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used in setting depreciable lives. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 3% in 2002 and decreased 2% in 2001. The 2002 increase reflects capital spending to support voice grade equivalent growth, service improvements, and ongoing build out of DSL services. The 2001 decrease is primarily due to a decrease in metallic cable depreciation rates. The decrease is due to metallic cable proving to be adequate in carrying higher bandwidth services such as DSL, thus extending its life. Depreciation and amortization expense was 18.6% of net operating revenues in 2002, 17.9% in 2001, and 18.5% in 2000. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In the 2002 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded a restructuring charge representing consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, as well as additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. This decision resulted in a charge of $53 million to the local division. In the fourth quarter of 2001, Sprint announced plans to take steps to improve its competitive position and reduce operating costs in the business units that comprise its FON Group. These efforts included consolidation and streamlining of marketing and network operations, as well as streamlining of corporate support functions. This decision resulted in a charge of $109 million associated with the severance costs of the work force reductions and contractual obligations. In the 2002 third quarter, Sprint performed an analysis to finalize the restructuring estimates recorded in the 2001 fourth quarter. This analysis resulted in the recognition of an additional charge of $3 million being recorded in the 2002 third quarter. For additional information see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Other businesses consist primarily of wholesale sales of telecommunications equipment. Net operating revenues were $863 million in 2002, $1,206 million in 2001, and $1,468 million in 2000. Nonaffiliated revenues, which accounted for 35% of revenues in 2002, declined 41% as capital spending continues to suffer in the telecommunications industry. Operating expenses decreased 24% in 2002 and 16% in 2001 driven by reduced cost of services and products. Operating loss for 2002 was $23 million, while operating income was $34 million in 2001 and $75 million in 2000. In 2003, Sprint plans to continue to leverage its web enabled capabilities to improve revenues and expand value added services. PCS Group 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Net operating revenues $12,074 $ 9,725 $ 6,341 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 5,783 5,295 3,942 Selling, general and administrative 3,411 2,917 2,426 Depreciation and amortization 2,267 2,150 1,877 Restructuring and asset impairment 138 10 Merger related costs 24 Total operating expenses 11,599 10,372 8,269 Operating income (loss) $ 475 $ (647) $(1,928) Operating income (loss) before depreciation and amortization $ 2,742 $ 1,503 $ (51) Capital expenditures $ 2,668 $ 3,751 $ 3,047 36 The wireless industry faced an increasingly challenging operating environment in 2002, with a continued economic slowdown and an accompanying decline in customer growth. While business recovery has been weaker than hoped for, the PCS Group exited the year with a 24% increase in net operating revenues and a $1.12 billion improvement in operating income. In the second half of 2001, the PCS Group introduced the Clear Pay program. This program targeted the sub prime customer segment by eliminating a deposit requirement. Clear Pay led to substantial customer growth and increased the PCS Groups share of industry gross additions within its markets to the low twenty percent level in the fourth quarter of 2001. In 2002, an increased percentage of these newly added customers failed to pay for services or engaged in fraudulent payments that led to deactivation of their accounts, and resulted in an increase in bad debt and customer churn. To address this situation, the PCS Group took several actions during the year. In the first half of 2002, the PCS Group tightened credit screening requirements and limited the use of automated payment vehicles. In the second half of 2002, the PCS Group initiated a deposit requirement for most Clear Pay customers. These actions led to a decline in customer growth and a decline in the PCS Groups share of industry gross additions within its markets to the high teen percent level. However, the credit mix of customers began to improve in the fourth quarter of 2002. In 2003, Sprint expects the PCS Group to sustain this level of industry gross additions within its markets while continuing to improve the credit mix of its customers. Competitive pressure on price is expected to continue, but is expected to be partially offset by increased usage and revenues from PCS Vision services including data, e mail, instant messaging, taking, sending and receiving photographs, games and Internet browsing and services. The PCS Group markets its products through multiple distribution channels, including its own retail stores as well as other retail outlets. Equipment sales to one retail chain and the subsequent service revenues generated by sales to its customers accounted for 22% of net operating revenues in 2002 and 24% in both 2001 and 2000. Net Operating Revenues 2002 2001 2000 Customers at year end (millions) 14.8 13.6 9.5 Average monthly service revenue per user (ARPU) $ 62 $ 61 $ 59 Net operating revenues include service revenues and sales of handsets and accessory equipment. Service revenues consist of monthly recurring charges, usage charges, a pro rata portion of activation fees and miscellaneous fees such as directory assistance, operator assisted calling, handset insurance and late payment charges associated with the PCS Groups subscriber base. Service revenues increased 27% in 2002 mainly reflecting an increase in the average number of customers and stable ARPU. In 2002, Sprint saw increased pricing pressures, which were offset by customers subscribing to higher usage service plans, and increased miscellaneous fees in 2001 and late payment fees in 2002. The PCS Group added 1.2 million customers in 2002 to end the year with 14.8 million customers in more than 300 metropolitan markets nationwide. Resellers added 196,000 customers in 2002, which increased their customer base to 415,000, principally due to Virgin Mobile, USA. The PCS Group third party affiliates added more than 544,000 customers in 2002, bringing the total number of customers served on the PCS network, including resale customers and third party affiliates, to more than 17.7 million. Service revenues increased 58% in 2001 mainly reflecting an increase in the average number of customers and an increase in ARPU. The increase in ARPU in 2001 was mainly due to customers subscribing to higher usage service plans and the implementation of activation charges in the second quarter of 2000. The PCS Group added over 4.0 million customers in 2001 to end the year with 13.6 million customers. Service revenues from resale customers declined in 2001 mainly due to the discontinuation of one reseller program, which reduced the reseller customer base to 219,000 in 2001 from 310,000 in 2000. The PCS Group third party affiliates added more than 1.2 million customers in 2001, bringing the total number of customers served on the PCS network, including resale customers, to more than 15.8 million. The PCS Group assesses access charges to long distance carriers for the termination of landline originated calls. Though regulations generally entitle a carrier that terminates a call on behalf of another to be compensated for providing that service, these regulations were developed in a period where services of this nature were provided exclusively by local exchange carriers. Certain long distance carriers have disputed the PCS Groups assessment of these charges as well as the corresponding rate at which the charges were determined. In July 2002, the FCC released a ruling affirming that nothing prohibited wireless carriers from imposing access charges for the use of their networks; however, the FCC also stated that inter exchange carriers could not be unilaterally required to pay 37 these charges without a contractual obligation to do so. The FCC referred the dispute back to the Federal District Court for the Western District of Missouri for a determination whether the PCS Group has stated a claim under Missouri State law. AT&T filed a Notice of Appeal at the DC Circuit Court of Appeals challenging the ruling. In light of this ruling, the PCS Group recorded an additional provision for outstanding receivables related to amounts previously billed and is fully reserved for 2002. In 2002, the customer churn rate increased to 3.3% from 2.6% in 2001 and 2.8% in 2000. The increase resulted primarily from company initiated churn largely associated with the deactivations of Clear Pay customers, as well as a slight increase in the voluntary churn rate. Recognizing the impact of increased churn from the Clear Pay program, the PCS Group has initiated more stringent credit checks on potential customers, as well as deposit requirements in many categories. As a result, improvements were noted in the involuntary component of the churn rate by the end of the fourth quarter of 2002. In 2001, the churn rate improved during the first half of the year, reaching as low as 2.2%. This improvement reflected increased percentage of customers under contract, the success of several customer retention initiatives and expanded network coverage. These improvements were offset by an increase in the churn rate for the last half of 2001 resulting from customer fulfillment of contract terms, the softness of the economy, and the Clear Pay program. The PCS Group expects the customer churn rate to steadily improve throughout 2003. Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories were approximately 10% of net operating revenues in 2002, 12% in 2001 and 14% in 2000. As part of the PCS Groups marketing plans, handsets are usually sold at prices below the PCS Groups cost. Cost of Services and Products The PCS Groups costs of services and products mainly include handset and accessory costs, switch and cell site expenses, customer care costs and other network related costs. These costs increased 9% in 2002 and 34% in 2001. The 2002 increase is primarily due to network support of a larger customer base, expanded market coverage and increased handset unit costs. These increases are somewhat offset by scale benefits resulting from the increased customer base and decreases in customer solutions expense. The 2001 increase reflects significant growth in customers and expanded market coverage, partly offset by a reduction in handset unit costs. Costs of services and products were 47.9% of net operating revenue in 2002 compared to 54.4% in 2001 and 62.2% in 2000. Selling, General and Administrative Expense SG&A expense mainly includes marketing costs to promote products and services as well as salary and benefit costs. SG&A expense increased 17% in 2002 and 20% in 2001. The 2002 increase reflects increased marketing and selling costs associated with the PCS Vision launch and increased bad debt expense. The 2001 increases reflect an expanded workforce to support subscriber growth and increased marketing and selling costs. 2002 2001 2000 Acquisition costs per gross customer addition (CPGA) $350 $305 $340 Monthly cash costs per user (CCPU) $ 33 $ 35 $ 37 Cost per Gross Customer Addition CPGA is a measure of the costs of acquiring a new subscriber, consisting of equipment subsidies, sales and marketing costs, divided by handset activations for new PCS customers. CPGA increased approximately 15% in 2002 compared to a reduction of approximately 10% in 2001. The CPGA increase is primarily attributable to marketing costs and equipment subsidies associated with the launch of PCS Vision, as well as costs being spread across lower gross customer additions. In 2001, lower handset unit costs and scale benefits from greater customer additions contributed to the improvement. Cash Costs per User CCPU is a measure of the cash costs to operate the business on a per user basis, consisting of costs of service revenues, service delivery and other general and administrative costs, divided by average subscribers. CCPU decreased approximately 6% in 2002 and 5% in 2001. Improvements realized in 2002 were driven by lower customer solutions costs and network and information technology costs per user partially offset by higher bad debt expense per user. The improvements realized in 2001 were driven by lower network, information technology, and administrative costs partially offset by higher cost of service delivery. 38 The reserve for bad debt requires managements judgment and is based on customer specific indicators, as well as historical trending, industry norms, regulatory decisions and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues was 4.8% in 2002 and 3.9% in 2001 and 2000. Reserve for bad debt as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 9.4% in 2002, 9.1% in 2001, and 8.1% in 2000. In the 2002 third quarter, the PCS Group removed cancellation fee and late fee reserves from the allowance for doubtful accounts, as the income impact of these amounts are considered revenue adjustments. Prior periods have been restated to conform to the current presentation. In 2002, bad debt expenses, as well as the reserve, increased due to provisions for write offs associated with the Clear Pay customers. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used in setting depreciable lives. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation and amortization expense consists mainly of depreciation of network assets and amortization of intangible assets. The definite life intangible assets include various customer bases, which became fully amortized in August 2002. Depreciation expense increased 27% in 2002 and 33% in 2001 mainly reflecting depreciation of the network assets placed in service during 2001 and the first half of 2002. Additionally, the PCS Group increased depreciation of certain network assets in the 2001 first quarter to reflect the accelerated replacement of the assets to accommodate network technology upgrades. Amortization expense decreased to $4 million in 2002 from $364 million in 2001. Amortization of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles ceased upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 at January 1, 2002. Periodic impairment testing of indefinite life intangibles is now required. This implementation is discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Intangibles becoming fully amortized in 2001 accounted for $145 million of the decline in 2002 while SFAS No. 142 implementation accounted for the remaining decline in 2002 of $215 million. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In 2002, the PCS Group recorded a restructuring charge of $78 million representing the consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, as well as other reductions to create a more competitive cost structure by reducing operating expenses. Additionally, the PCS Group recorded an asset impairment of $42 million representing abandoned network projects. In 2002, the PCS Group incurred an $18 million charge associated with its closing of five PCS customer solution centers, as well as additional steps to reduce operating costs in the PCS business units. In 2001, Sprint consolidated and streamlined marketing and network operations, as well as streamlined corporate support functions. This resulted in a charge of $10 million to the PCS Group associated with the severance costs of the work force reductions and termination of contractual obligations. For additional information see Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nonoperating Items Interest Expense The effective interest rates in the following table reflect interest expense on long term debt only. Interest costs on short term borrowings classified as long term debt, deferred compensation plans and customer deposits have been excluded so as not to distort the effective interest rates on long term debt. 2002 2001 2000 Effective interest rate on long term debt 6.9% 6.7% 6.9% Sprints effective interest rate on long term debt increased in 2002 due to additional fixed rate debt with higher interest rates. Conversely, the effective interest rate decreased in 2001 due to additional fixed rate debt with lower interest rates and lower interest rates on variable rate debt. 39 Allocation of Group Financing Financing activities for the groups are managed by Sprint on a centralized basis. Debt incurred by Sprint on behalf of the groups is specifically allocated to and reflected in the financial statements of the applicable group. Interest expense is allocated to the PCS Group based on an interest rate that is substantially equal to the rate it would be able to obtain from third parties as a direct or indirect wholly owned Sprint subsidiary, but without the benefit of any guarantee by Sprint or any member of the FON Group. That interest rate is higher than the rate Sprint obtains on borrowings. The difference between Sprints actual interest rate and the rate charged to the PCS Group is reflected as a reduction in the FON Groups interest expense and totaled $336 million in 2002, $288 million in 2001 and $237 million in 2000. These amounts are reflected in the "Intergroup interest charge" on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The FON Group earned intergroup interest income and the PCS Group incurred intergroup interest expense of $15 million in 2001 and $19 million in 2000 primarily related to the FON Groups ownership of PCS Group debt securities. Sprint redeemed these securities in the 2001 fourth quarter. As a result of this redemption, the FON Group recognized an $11 million pre tax gain to other non operating income and the PCS Group recorded a $7 million after tax extraordinary loss related to an early redemption premium payment made by the PCS Group to the FON Group. Under Sprints centralized cash management program, one group may advance funds to the other group. These advances are accounted for as short term borrowings between the groups and bear interest at a market rate that is substantially equal to the rate that group would be able to obtain from third parties on a short term basis. The allocation of group financing activities may change at the discretion of the Sprint board and does not require shareholder approval. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consisted of the following: 2002 2001 2000 (millions) Dividend and interest income $ 31 $ 33 $ 30 Equity in net losses of affiliates (117) (157) (248) Net losses from investments (258) (188) (102) Gains on sales of other assets 117 10 47 Amortization of debt costs (36) (20) (2) Losses from disposal of PP&E (13) (4) (11) Benefit plan curtailment gain 120 Royalties 9 Foreign currency translation 7 Other, net (5) 13 16 Total $(265) $(193) $(270) Dividend and interest income for all years reflects dividends earned on cost method investments and interest earned on temporary investments. Equity in net losses of affiliates in 2002 was driven by the PCS Groups investments in Virgin Mobile, USA (Virgin Mobile) and Pegaso, and the FON Groups investment in Call Net. In 2001, equity in net losses of affiliates was driven by the PCS Groups investment in Pegaso and the FON Groups investment in Intelig. In 2000, investments accounted for using the equity method also included the FON Groups investments in EarthLink, Inc., and Call Net. In the first quarter of 2001, Sprint modified its relationship with EarthLink which resulted in its investment in common stock no longer being accounted for using the equity method. In the fourth quarter of 2000, Sprint wrote down its investment in Call Net and was not required to recognize any related equity in losses in 2001. However, Sprint made an additional investment in Call Net in the 2002 second quarter and recognized an equal amount of losses associated with the investment. The 2002 equity in net losses of affiliates decreased due to a reduction in equity losses following the write down of the investment in Intelig and the sale of Pegaso, partially offset by Virgin Mobile and Call Net losses. The 2001 decrease was due to a reduction in equity losses following the write down of the investments in Call Net and Intelig, partially offset by Pegaso losses. 40 Net losses from investments in 2002 mainly include the write down of EarthLink preferred shares to market value and the write down of the investment in Intelig. Net losses from investments in 2001 mainly include a $162 million write down of an equity investment in Intelig and a $25 million loss on the partial sale of EarthLink shares. The 2000 loss includes an $87 million write down of an equity investment in Call Net and a $35 million write down of warrants held in Purchase Pro.com. Gains on sales of other assets in 2002 were driven by the sale of Sprints investment in Pegaso, certain customer contracts and stock received during a companys demutualization. Gains on sales of other assets in 2001 resulted from the sale of PCS customers to a PCS third party affiliate. The 2000 gains include the sale of certain wireless customers and associated network infrastructure and the sale of an investment security. The benefit plan curtailment gain in 2001 resulted from an amendment of certain medical retirement plan benefits. Income Taxes Sprints consolidated effective tax rates were (9.1)% in 2002, 31.8% in 2001, and 24.0% in 2000. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the differences that caused the effective income tax rates to vary from the statutory federal rate for income taxes related to continuing operations. Discontinued Operations, Net In the 2002 third quarter, Sprint reached a definitive agreement to sell its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley for $2.23 billion in cash. The sale closed on January 3, 2003 and Sprint will recognize a pre tax gain of $2.14 billion, $1.3 billion after tax, in the 2003 first quarter. In the 2000 first quarter, Sprint sold its interest in Global One to France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom AG. Sprint received $1.1 billion in cash and was repaid $276 million for advances for its entire stake in Global One. Sprint recorded an after tax gain related to the sale of its interest in Global One of $675 million. Extraordinary Items, Net In 2002, Sprint repurchased, before scheduled maturities, $67 million of debt allocated to the FON Group. These borrowings had interest rates ranging from 6.0% to 7.125%. This resulted in a $3 million after tax extraordinary gain for Sprint. In 2001, Sprint redeemed, before scheduled maturities, $18 million of debt allocated to the FON Group and $558 million of debt allocated to the PCS Group. These borrowings had interest rates ranging from 9.9% to 12.5%. This resulted in a $1 million after tax extraordinary loss for Sprint. In 2000, Sprint redeemed, before scheduled maturities, $25 million of debt allocated to the FON Group and $127 million of debt allocated to the PCS Group. These borrowings had interest rates ranging from 7.8% to 9.7%. This resulted in a $4 million after tax extraordinary loss for Sprint. Financial Condition 2002 2001 (millions) FON Group $23,043 $24,272 PCS Group 23,022 22,190 Intergroup eliminations (772) (669) Consolidated assets $45,293 $45,793 Sprints consolidated assets decreased $500 million in 2002. Accounts receivable decreased $596 million due to improved cash collections. Cash and equivalents increased $722 million due to the improved operating cash flows and reduced capital expenditures. Net property, plant and equipment decreased $215 million as capital expenditures were more than offset by depreciation expense and the 2002 asset impairments. Investments in and advances to affiliates decreased $215 million due to sales and dissolutions of investments. The remaining significant change within consolidated assets was the $241 million write down of our investment in EarthLink. 41 The rating agencies generally give some form of equity treatment for equity unit notes in determining debt to total capital ratios. The Sprint debt to total capital ratio was 59.7% at year end 2002 versus 59.9% at year end 2001, assuming that the Sprint equity unit notes are treated as 80% equity and 20% debt. Accordingly, the debt to total capital ratio for Sprint is calculated defining "debt" as short term borrowings, long term debt, capital lease obligations and 20% of the equity unit notes value. Total capital is defined as "debt," plus the remaining 80% of the equity unit notes value, redeemable preferred stock and total shareholders equity. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" for more information about changes in Sprints Consolidated Balance Sheets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sprints board of directors exercises discretion regarding the liquidity and capital resource needs of the FON Group and the PCS Group. This includes the ability to prioritize the use of capital and debt capacity, to determine cash management policies and to make decisions regarding the timing and amount of capital expenditures. The actions of the Board are subject to its fiduciary duties to all shareholders of Sprint and not just to the holders of a particular class of common stock. Given the Boards discretion in these matters, it may be difficult to assess each groups liquidity and capital resource needs and future prospects based on past performance. Operating Activities 2002 2001 2000 (millions) FON Group $4,176 $4,457 $4,104 PCS Group 2,030 106 (8) Cash flows provided by operating activities of continuing operations $6,206 $4,563 $4,096 Operating cash flows increased $1.6 billion in 2002 and $467 million in 2001. The 2002 increase was driven mainly by PCS Groups EBITDA, excluding restructuring and asset impairments, improving $1.37 billion. The FON Group also contributed to the improvement with $509 million in EBITDA growth, excluding restructuring and asset impairments, as cost controls and reductions in work force have mitigated the revenue erosion seen in the global market division. The receipt of $480 million of tax refunds generated by the economic stimulus bill passed in the 2002 first quarter also contributed to the increase. These increases in cash flows were partially offset by higher working capital requirements. The 2001 increase reflects improved operating results in the PCS Group partly offset by a decline in FON Group operating results. The 2001 increase also reflects decreases in working capital requirements in the FON Group partly offset by increases in working capital requirements in the PCS Group. The decrease in FON Group working capital requirements was caused primarily by the reduction in accounts receivable which resulted from the global markets division revenue decline and increased billing adjustments, bad debt and cash collections. Also causing the decrease was accrued restructuring costs not paid at year end 2001. The increase in PCS Group working capital requirements was caused primarily by the increase in accounts receivable, which resulted mainly from larger revenues associated with subscriber growth. Investing Activities 2002 2001 2000 (millions) FON Group $(1,987) $(5,036) $(4,738) PCS Group (2,608) (3,742) (3,054) Cash flows used by investing activities of continuing operations $(4,595) $(8,778) $(7,792) The FON Groups capital expenditures totaled $2.2 billion in 2002, $5.3 billion in 2001, and $4.1 billion in 2000. Global markets division capital expenditures were incurred mainly to enhance network reliability and upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services. The local division incurred capital expenditures to accommodate voice grade equivalent growth, expand capabilities for providing enhanced services, convert our network from circuit to packet switching and continue the build out of high speed DSL services. Other FON Group capital expenditures were incurred mainly for Sprints World Headquarters Campus. The decline in FON Group capital expenditures in 2002 was driven mainly by the termination of Sprint ION and reduced spending for data related services. PCS Group capital expenditures, totaling $2.7 billion in 2002, $3.8 billion in 2001 and $3.0 billion 42 in 2000, were incurred to increase capacity and expand coverage. The 2002 and 2001 amounts also include approximately $100 million and $600 million, respectively, of expenditures related to deployment of 3G technology which was launched nationwide in the 2002 third quarter. In 2002, "Investments in and loans to affiliates, net" represent proceeds of $116 million due to sales and dissolutions of investments. In 2001 and 2000, net investments and loans were $66 million and $889 million, respectively. These amounts were mainly for investments in EarthLink, Virgin Mobile, Intelig, SVP BidCo L.P., and Pegaso. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on investments. Investing activities also include proceeds from sales of other assets totaling $138 million in 2002, $301 million in 2001 and $258 million in 2000. In 2002, investing activities mainly include proceeds from the sale of the PCS Groups investment in Pegaso and the FON Groups sale of certain customer contracts, investment securities and other administrative assets. The 2001 activities mainly include proceeds from sale of PCS customers to an affiliate and certain network and administrative assets. In 2000, investing activities also include $1.4 billion of proceeds from the sale of the FON Groups interest in Global One. Financing Activities 2002 2001 2000 (millions) FON Group $(1,836) $ 463 $ (952) PCS Group 793 3,698 3,163 Cash flows provided (used) by financing activities of continuing operations $(1,043) $4,161 $2,211 Financing activities reflect a net debt reduction of $642 million in 2002 compared to a net borrowing of $4.0 billion in 2001, and $2.3 billion in 2000. The reduction in the debt requirements in 2002 is due to Sprints continuing operating cash flow improvement and reduced capital expenditures. Financing activities also reflect net proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $3 million in 2002, $608 million in 2001, and $269 million in 2000. Proceeds from these borrowings and common stock issuances were used mainly to fund capital investments and working capital requirements. Sprint paid dividends of $454 million in 2002, $451 million in 2001, and $448 million in 2000. Also included in financing activities are debt discounts and proceeds from Sprints employee stock purchase plan of $50 million in 2002, $13 million in 2001, and $182 million in 2000. Capital Requirements Sprints 2003 investing activities, mainly consisting of capital expenditures, are expected to total approximately $4.7 billion. FON Group capital expenditures are expected to be $2.3 billion. These expenditures are primarily to support the growth in demand for enterprise services. They also include investments for broadband initiatives and the phased transition from circuit to packet switching. PCS Group capital expenditures are expected to be $2.3 to $2.4 billion. These investments are targeted largely for network capacity and coverage. Sprint continues to review capital expenditure requirements closely and will adjust spending and capital investment in concert with growth. Dividend payments are expected to approximate $463 million in 2003. Sprint expects overall free cash flow in 2003 to be approximately $1.2 billion, including breakeven performance in the PCS Group. In connection with the PCS Restructuring, Sprint adopted a tax sharing agreement providing for the allocation of income taxes between the FON Group and the PCS Group. That agreement expired with the 2001 tax year and Sprint has adopted a continuation of that tax sharing arrangement except for the elimination of provisions addressing certain types of acquisitions or restructurings, which never became operable under the original arrangement. Sprint expects the FON Group to continue to make significant payments to the PCS Group under this arrangement because of expected PCS Group tax losses in the near future and from using the PCS Groups tax loss carryforwards. These payments reflect the PCS Groups incremental cumulative effect on Sprints consolidated federal and state tax liability and tax credit position. The PCS Group received payments from the FON Group totaling $360 million in 2002, $292 million in 2001, and $872 million in 2000. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, "Intergroup Transactions and Allocations Allocation of Federal and State Income Taxes," for more details. 43 Liquidity In recent years, Sprint has used the long term bond market as well as other financial markets to fund its needs. As a result of its improved liquidity position, Sprint currently does not expect to borrow funds through the capital markets in 2003 to fund capital expenditures and operating and working capital requirements. In September 2002, Sprint announced that it had reached a definitive agreement to sell its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley. The sale was completed on January 3, 2003 and Sprint received after tax cash proceeds of $2.1 billion. Sprint has a revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks totaling $1.5 billion which expires in August 2003. The $1.5 billion facility is unsecured, with no springing liens, and is structured as a 364 day credit line with a subsequent one year, $1.0 billion term out option. Sprint has no plans to draw against this facility. Sprint had standby letters of credit serving as a backup to various obligations of approximately $125 million at year end 2002. Sprint has had no commercial paper outstanding since May 2002. In June 2002, Sprint closed on a new PCS Group accounts receivable asset securitization facility. This facility provides Sprint with up to $500 million of additional liquidity. The new facility is a three year program subject to annual renewals and does not include any ratings triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facility in the event of a credit rating downgrade. The maximum amount of funding available is based on numerous factors and will fluctuate each month. Sprint has not drawn against the facility and it had more than $250 million available as of year end 2002. In August 2002, Sprint closed on a new $700 million global markets division accounts receivable asset securitization facility that replaced the previous $1 billion facility. The reduction in size was due primarily to a smaller gross receivable pool for the global markets division at that time versus 1999, when the original facility was established. The new facility is a three year program subject to annual renewals and does not include any ratings triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facility in the event of a credit rating downgrade. The maximum amount of funding available is based on numerous factors and will fluctuate each month. As of December 31, 2002, Sprint had $455 million outstanding under the facility which was approximately the total funding available. In February 2003, Sprint prepaid all outstanding borrowings under this facility. The $700 million facility remains in place and funds are available to be redrawn at any time. The undrawn loan facilities described above have interest rates equal to LIBOR or Prime Rate plus a spread that varies depending on our credit ratings. Debt maturities during 2003 total approximately $1.4 billion. The closing of the sale of the directory publishing business, the execution of new financing agreements, Sprints $1.0 billion cash balance at December 31, 2002, and expected free cash flow of $1.2 billion in 2003 more than fund these requirements. Any borrowings Sprint may incur are ultimately limited by certain debt covenants. Sprint could borrow up to an additional $4.7 billion at year end 2002 under the most restrictive of its debt covenants. Sprint is currently in compliance with all debt covenants associated with its borrowings. Sprint also repurchased long term debt in December 2002 in the amount of $67 million. Sprint continually evaluates various factors and, as a result, may repurchase additional debt in the future. In March 2002, Sprint issued $5 billion of debt securities through a private placement. These borrowings have interest rates ranging from 7.9% to 8.8% and maturities ranging from 2005 to 2032. The proceeds were allocated 5% to the FON Group and 95% to the PCS Group and were used to extinguish outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. As a condition to the sale of the securities, Sprint agreed to conduct an exchange offer that allowed the original securities to be exchanged for substantially identical securities registered with the SEC. This exchange offer was completed in June 2002. In the 2001 fourth quarter, Sprint issued $1.75 billion of debt securities through a private placement. These borrowings have an interest rate of 6.0% and mature in 2007. The proceeds were allocated approximately 60% to the FON Group and 40% to the PCS Group and were used to repay debt and to fund capital investments and working capital requirements. As a condition to the sale of these securities, Sprint agreed to conduct an exchange offer that allowed the original securities to be exchanged for substantially identical securities registered with the SEC. The exchange offer was completed in February 2002. 44 In the 2001 third quarter, Sprint completed a registered offering of 23.5 million shares of its Series 1 PCS common stock. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $561 million after deducting the underwriting discount and other offering expenses. The proceeds were used to repay debt, and to fund capital investments and working capital requirements. In the 2001 third quarter, Sprint completed a registered offering of 69 million equity units, each with a stated amount of $25. Net proceeds from the issuance were approximately $1.7 billion after deducting the underwriting discount and other offering expenses. The proceeds were allocated to the PCS Group and used to repay debt and to fund capital investments and working capital requirements. See Note 12 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, "Equity Unit Offering," for a more detailed description of the equity units. In the 2001 first quarter, Sprint issued $2.4 billion of debt securities. Sprint had $2 billion of unissued securities under its existing shelf registration statement with the SEC, and registered an additional $400 million before the issuance. These borrowings have interest rates ranging from 7.1% to 7.6% and mature in 2006 and 2011. The proceeds were allocated to the PCS Group and used to repay debt and to fund capital investments and working capital requirements. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at BBB with a stable outlook. Fitch rates Sprints short term debt at F2. Standard and Poors Corporate Ratings (Standard and Poors) currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at BBB with a stable outlook. Standard and Poors rates Sprints short term debt at A3. Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at Baa3 with a negative outlook. Moodys rates Sprints short term debt at P3. Sprints ability to fund its capital needs is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the bank, term debt and equity markets. There is significant volatility in the markets at this time caused by the economic downturn, recent business failures and reduced confidence in the financial accounting process. Sprint continues to monitor the markets closely and to take steps to maintain as much financial flexibility as possible, while maintaining a reasonable capital structure cost. Sprint currently does not plan to access the markets. Sprints contractual obligations, including commitments for future payments under non cancelable lease arrangements and short and long term debt arrangements, are summarized below and are fully disclosed in Notes 10, 11, 12, 13 and 16 to Sprints Consolidated Financial Statements. Payments Due by Period Less than 1 1 3 4 5 After 5 Total year years years years (millions) Notes, bonds, debentures and other debt instruments $19,498 $1,367 $2,553 $2,510 $13,068 Trade receivables securitization 455 455 Equity unit notes 1,725 1,725 Capital lease obligations 339 65 148 113 13 Operating leases 2,899 863 1,188 478 370 Unconditional purchase obligations 1,994 1,575 405 14 Fifth series preferred stock 10 10 Total contractual cash obligations $26,920 $4,335 $4,294 $4,840 $13,451 Off Balance Sheet Financing Sprint does not participate in, nor secure, financings for any unconsolidated, special purpose entities. 45 Regulatory Developments See "Regulatory Developments" in Part I. of this filing. Financial Strategies General Hedging Policies Sprint selectively enters into interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate changes on its debt. Sprint also enters into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Sprint seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, the selection of only the most creditworthy counterparties, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. Sprint also controls exposure to market risk by regularly monitoring changes in foreign exchange and interest rate positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits. Sprints derivative transactions are used for hedging purposes only and comply with Board approved policies. Senior management receives frequent status updates of all outstanding derivative positions. Interest Rate Risk Management Fair Value Hedges Sprint may enter into interest rate swap agreements to minimize exposure to interest rate movements and achieve an optimal mixture of floating and fixed rate debt while minimizing liquidity risk. The interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively convert Sprints fixed rate debt to a floating rate by receiving fixed rate amounts in exchange for floating rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. As of December 31, 2002, Sprint had no outstanding fair value hedges. Cash Flow Hedges Sprint may enter into interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the impact of interest rate movements on future interest expense by effectively converting a portion of its floating rate debt to a fixed rate. As of December 31, 2002, Sprint had no outstanding interest rate cash flow hedges. Other Derivatives In certain business transactions, Sprint is granted warrants to purchase the securities of other companies at fixed rates. These warrants are supplemental to the terms of the business transaction and are not designated as hedging instruments. During 2002, Sprint entered into forward sale contracts with net purchased equity option derivatives to monetize equity securities held as available for sale. The derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the variability in expected cash flows related to the forecasted sale of the underlying equity securities. Foreign Exchange Risk Management Sprints foreign exchange risk management program focuses on hedging transaction exposure to optimize consolidated cash flow. Sprints main transaction exposure results from payments made to and received from overseas telecommunications companies for completing international calls made by Sprints domestic customers. These international operations were not material to the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows at year end 2002. In addition, foreign currency transaction gains and losses were not material to Sprints 2002 results of operations. Sprint has not entered into any significant foreign currency forward contracts or other derivative instruments to reduce the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. As a result, Sprint was not subject to material foreign exchange risk. 46 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure." This statement amends SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based Compensation." The provisions of this statement are effective for interim and annual financial statements for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2002. This statement provides alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to the fair value based method of accounting for stock based employee compensation. Also, this statement amends the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123 to require prominent disclosures in both annual and interim financial statements about the method of accounting for stock based employee compensation and the effect of the method used on reported results. Sprint continues to apply APB 25 recognition and measurement principles, but has complied with the new disclosure requirements of this statement. See Note 1 for these disclosures. Sprint will begin to expense the fair value of stock based employee compensation beginning in the 2003 first quarter. Sprint will apply the method prescribed in SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, on all new and separate grants of options made on or after January 1, 2003. The Company estimates that, under these accounting rules, expensing stock options on a prospective basis will result in a charge to earnings of two cents per diluted share for FON and one cent per diluted share for PCS in 2003. See Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of other recently issued accounting pronouncements. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The risk inherent in Sprints market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in those factors. Sprint is susceptible to certain risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Sprint does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk The communications industry is a capital intensive, technology driven business. Sprint is subject to interest rate risk primarily associated with its borrowings. Sprint selectively enters into interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate changes on its debt. Approximately 90% of Sprints debt at December 31, 2002 is fixed rate debt. While changes in interest rates impact the fair value of this debt, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows because Sprint intends to hold these obligations to maturity unless market conditions are favorable. Sprint performs interest rate sensitivity analyses on its variable rate debt. These analyses indicate that a 1% change in interest rates would have a $13 million pre tax impact on the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows at December 31, 2002. While Sprints variable rate debt is subject to earnings and cash flows impacts as interest rates change, it is not subject to changes in fair values. Sprint also prepared a value at risk analysis to assess the worst case impact of past market movements on Sprints 2002 debt portfolio. Based on that analysis, which used average interest rates from 1980 to present, Sprint is 95% confident that the fair value of outstanding debt would not increase above Sprints book value over the next six months. Foreign Currency Risk Sprint also enters into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Sprint uses foreign currency derivatives to hedge its net foreign currency payable related to settlement of international telecommunications access charges. The dollar equivalent of Sprints net foreign currency payables was $2 million at December 31, 2002. The potential immediate pre tax loss to Sprint that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates based on these positions would be approximately $185,000. 
 
