Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward looking Information Sprint includes certain estimates, projections and other forward looking statements in its reports and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward looking statements. These statements reflect managements judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. With respect to these forward looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs and the economic environment. Future performance cannot be ensured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: extent and duration of any economic downturn; the effects of vigorous competition in the markets in which Sprint operates; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new markets; adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by ratings agencies; the ability of our wireless operations and the global markets division to continue to grow a significant market presence; the ability of Sprints wireless operations to continue to improve profitability; the ability of the global markets division and the local division to improve cash flow generation; the effects of mergers and consolidations in the telecommunications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the telecommunications industry; the uncertainties related to the outcome of bankruptcies affecting the telecommunications industry; the impact of financial difficulties of third party affiliates on Sprints wireless network coverage; the uncertainties related to Sprints investments in networks, systems, and other businesses; the uncertainties related to the implementation of Sprints business strategies, including our initiative to realign services to enhance the focus on business and consumer customers; the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on Sprints business; unexpected results of litigation filed against Sprint; the impact of wireless local number portability (WLNP) on Sprints wireless operations growth and churn rates, revenues and expenses; the possibility of one or more of the markets in which Sprint competes being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes, including the impact of the Telecommunications Act of 1996 (Telecom Act), or other external factors over which Sprint has no control; and other risks referenced from time to time in Sprints filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The words estimate, project, intend, expect, believe, target, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are found throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Sprint is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report or unforeseen events. Sprint provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in various SEC filings, and you are encouraged to review these filings. 24 Overview Business Sprint is a global communications company and a leader in integrating long distance, local service, and wireless communications. Sprint is also one of the largest carriers of Internet traffic using its tier one Internet Protocol network, which provides connectivity to any point on the Internet either through its own network or via direct connections with other backbone providers. Sprint is the nations third largest provider of long distance services, based on revenues, and operates nationwide, all digital long distance and tier one Internet Protocol networks. Sprint currently serves approximately 7.9 million access lines in its franchise territories in 18 states. Additionally, Sprint provides local service using its facilities, leased facilities or unbundled network elements provided by other carriers in a total of 36 states and the District of Columbia. Sprint is selling into the cable telephony market through arrangements with cable companies that resell Sprint long distance service and use Sprint back office systems and network assets in support of their local telephone service provided over cable facilities. Sprint also operates a 100% digital PCS wireless network with licenses to provide service to the entire United States population, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, using a single frequency band and a single technology. The PCS Group, together with third party affiliates, operates PCS systems in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas. The PCS Groups service, including third party affiliates, reaches a quarter billion people. The PCS Group, combined with our wholesale and affiliate partners, served more than 20 million customers at the end of 2003. Industry Environment Sprint operates in industries that have been and continue to be subject to consolidation and dynamic change. Therefore, Sprint routinely reassesses its business strategies. Due to changes in the telecommunications industry, including bankruptcies, over capacity and the current economic environment, Sprint continually assesses the implications on its operations. Any such assessment may impact the valuation of its long lived assets. As part of its overall business strategy, Sprint regularly evaluates opportunities to expand and complement its business and may at any time be discussing or negotiating a transaction that, if consummated, could have a material effect on its business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. In 2003, Sprint sold its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley for $2.23 billion in cash. Business Transformation Currently, Sprints operations are divided into three segments: the global markets division, the local division, and the PCS wireless telephony products and services business. In an effort to enhance the focus on the needs and preferences of two distinct customer types businesses and consumers, Sprints market facing business units have been aligned into the Sprint Business Solutions (SBS) unit, Sprint Consumer Solutions (SCS) unit and the Sprint Local Consumer Solutions (SLCS) unit. This effort is expected to enable Sprint to more effectively and efficiently use its portfolio of assets to create customer focused communications solutions. During 2004, Sprint intends to continue to measure its activities using its current business segments, and begin to measure certain activities under this customer focused approach. Throughout 2004, management anticipates continuing to make decisions using the current segmentation. However, part of the decision making process will include viewing opportunities from a customer centric perspective. Sprint intends to develop and deliver integrated products and services which will help our customers function more effectively in the workplace and in daily life. In conjunction with these market facing business unit realignments, Sprint is undertaking initiatives to improve productivity through: Consolidating systems and eliminating redundancies Application rationalization Automation Process re engineering E enablement Organizational redesign and streamlining 25 These efforts have resulted in restructuring charges and asset impairments in the fourth quarter of 2003 and will continue to impact subsequent quarters. Ongoing efforts in these areas may have additional impacts in subsequent periods. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information relating to these activities. Tracking Stock Structure In November 1998, Sprints shareholders approved the allocation of all of Sprints assets and liabilities into two groups, the FON Group and the PCS Group, as well as the creation of the FON stock and the PCS stock. FON common stock and PCS common stock are intended to reflect the financial results and economic value of the FON and PCS Groups. However, they are classes of common stock of Sprint, not of the group they are intended to track. The FON Group is comprised of the global markets division, the local division and other businesses consisting primarily of wholesale distribution of telecommunications products. The global markets division is the nations third largest provider of long distance services based on revenues. The activities of the local division include local exchange communications and consumer long distance services used by customers within Sprints local franchise territories. The FON Group also includes its investments in EarthLink, Inc. (EarthLink), an Internet Service provider, and Call Net Enterprises, Inc. (Call Net), a long distance provider in Canada. The PCS Group includes Sprints wireless PCS operations. The PCS Group also includes its investment in Virgin Mobile, USA, a joint venture to market wireless services, principally to youth and pre pay segments. Considerations Relating to Tracking Stocks On February 28, 2004, Sprints board of directors decided to recombine the tracking stocks and return to a single common stock. As a result, each share of the PCS common stock will convert automatically into 0.50 shares of FON common stock on April 23, 2004. The FON stock will represent the only outstanding common stock of Sprint. After the recombination, Sprint will continue to present consolidated financial information, but will not include group level information. The recombination will not impact Sprints current presentation of all required segment information. Until the recombination, the FON common stock and the PCS common stock are intended to track the performance of the FON Group and the PCS Group, respectively. Because the FON common stock and the PCS common stock are classes of common stock of Sprint, not common stock of the group they are intended to track, the holders of the FON common stock and the PCS common stock are subject to the risks related to an equity investment in Sprint and all of Sprints businesses, assets and liabilities. Therefore, the market prices of the FON common stock and the PCS common stock may not accurately reflect the performance of the group they are intended to track. Between the announcement and the completion of the recombination, the price of the tracking stocks may reflect the expectation that a single common stock will result from the recombination, rather than reflecting the performance of the groups. Sprint has a single board of directors. Consequently, there is no board of directors that owes separate duties to the holders of either the FON common stock or the PCS common stock. Conflicts of interest between holders of FON common stock and PCS common stock in transactions between the FON Group and the PCS Group or in our dealings with third parties could be resolved by our board of directors to the detriment of the holders of one or the other class of common stock. After the recombination of the tracking stocks, events that would have benefited the holders of only one of the tracking stocks will benefit all Sprint shareholders. Consolidated Results of Operations Total net operating revenues were as follows: 2003 2002 2001 (millions) FON Group $ 14,185 $ 15,227 $ 16,415 PCS Group 12,690 12,074 9,725 Intergroup eliminations (678 ) (622 ) (578 ) Net operating revenues $ 26,197 $ 26,679 $ 25,562 26 Income (Loss) from continuing operations was as follows: 2003 2002 2001 (millions) FON Group $ 294 $ 1,049 $ (297 ) PCS Group (661 ) (578 ) (1,256 ) Income (Loss) from continuing operations $ (367 ) $ 471 $ (1,553 ) Income (loss) from continuing operations as presented in the above table includes the after tax impacts of the items discussed in the following paragraphs. In 2003, Sprint recorded net restructuring charges and asset impairments of $1.2 billion. These charges were associated with the write down to fair value of the FON Groups Multipoint Multichannel Distribution Services (MMDS) spectrum, other asset impairment charges, facilities and severance charges associated with the termination of the web hosting business, impairment charges associated with the termination of development of a new billing platform, impairment charges associated with the termination of software development projects, and severance costs associated with Sprints transformation to a customer focused organizational design, offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities. Also included in 2003 was a charge related to Sprints long term disability plan of $72 million, a $22 million charge in connection with the separation agreements agreed to by Sprint and three former executive officers, a $13 million charge mainly reflecting the premiums paid on a debt tender offer and the early retirement of local division debt, and a $9 million charge to settle a securities class action and derivative lawsuit relating to the failed merger with WorldCom (now MCI). These charges were partially offset by a $49 million tax benefit for recognition of certain income tax credits relating to various taxing jurisdictions and adjustments for state tax apportionments and a $31 million settlement of accounts receivable claims with MCI (formerly WorldCom) that had previously been fully reserved. In the 2002 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded restructuring charges and asset impairments of $154 million representing consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, impairment of a network asset, abandoned network project costs and additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. Also included in 2002 were the expected loss on receivables due to the bankruptcy declaration of WorldCom (now MCI) of $23 million, a net restructuring and asset impairment charge of $76 million, a gain on the sale of the PCS Groups investment in Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V. (Pegaso) of $67 million, a gain from the sale of customer contracts of $25 million, the write down of an investment due to declining market value of $241 million, and a tax benefit related to capital losses not previously recognizable of $292 million. In the 2001 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded a restructuring charge and asset impairment of $1,136 million representing the termination of Sprint ION, as well as additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. Additionally, in 2001, Sprint recorded a litigation charge of $15 million, a write down of the FON Groups equity method investment in Intelig Telecommunicacoes, Ltda. (Intelig) of $157 million which had an other than temporary decline in market value, a loss on the sale of a portion of the FON Groups investment in EarthLink of $8 million, a benefit plan curtailment gain of $75 million and net gains from other investment activities of $9 million. Critical Accounting Policies The fundamental objective of financial reporting is to provide useful information that allows a reader to comprehend the business activities of Sprint. To aid in that understanding, management has identified Sprints critical accounting policies. These policies are considered critical because they have the potential to have a material impact on Sprints financial statements, and because they require judgements and estimation due to the uncertainty involved in measuring, at a specific point in time, events which are continuous in nature. Long lived Asset Recovery A significant portion of Sprints total assets consist of long lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and definite life intangibles, as well as goodwill and indefinite life intangibles. Changes in technology or in Sprints intended use of these assets, as well as changes in broad economic or industry factors, may cause the estimated period of use or the value of these assets to change. Depreciable Lives of Assets Sprint performs annual internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of depreciable lives for each category of PP&E. These studies utilize models, which take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, and assumptions about technology evolution, and use in certain instances actuarially determined probabilities to calculate remaining life of our asset base. 27 Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to the establishment of asset depreciable lives is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about technology evolution and competitive uses of assets, and (2) the impact of changes in these assumptions could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. Managements assumptions about technology and its future development require significant judgement because the timing and impacts of technology advances are difficult to predict, and actual experience has varied from previous assumptions and could continue to do so. If Sprints studies had resulted in a depreciable rate that was 5% higher or lower than those used in the preparation of Sprints consolidated financial statements, recorded depreciation expense would have been impacted by approximately $265 million. The impact to FON Group depreciation expense would have been approximately $135 million and the impact to PCS Group depreciation expense would have been approximately $130 million. Property, Plant and Equipment and Definite Life Intangibles Impairment PP&E and definite life intangibles are evaluated for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Accounting standards require that if an impairment indicator is present, Sprint must assess whether the carrying amount of the asset is unrecoverable by estimating the sum of the future cash flows expected to result from the asset, undiscounted and without interest charges. If the carrying amount is more than the recoverable amount, an impairment charge must be recognized, based on the fair value of the asset. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to asset impairment is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about future revenues and costs of sales over the life of the asset, and (2) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on our financial position, as well as our results of operations, could be material. Managements assumptions about future revenues require significant judgement because actual revenues have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so. In estimating future revenues, we use our internal business forecasts. We develop our forecasts based on recent revenue data for existing products and services, planned timing of new products and services, and other industry and economic factors. When indicators are present, Sprint tests for impairment. This resulted in total PP&E impairments of $652 million, $198 million and $1,327 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In 2003, FON Group recorded $303 million associated with the termination of its web hosting business and software development projects. PCS Group recorded $349 million associated with the terminated development of a new billing platform and a software development project. These impairments represent 2 percent of the December 31, 2003 consolidated net PP&E. In 2002, FON Group recorded $156 million for network asset impairments and PCS Group recorded $42 million for abandoned network projects. These impairments represent less than 1 percent of the December 31, 2002 consolidated net PP&E. In 2001, FON Group recorded $1,327 million with the termination of efforts to provide its Sprint ION consumer and business offerings. This impairment represents 4.6 percent of the December 31, 2001 consolidated net PP&E. Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is tested by comparing net book value of the reporting unit (identified as Sprints operating segments) to fair value. Indefinite life intangibles are tested by comparing book value to estimated fair value. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to goodwill and indefinite life intangibles is a critical accounting estimate because (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about fair values, and (2) the impact of recognizing an impairment could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. Managements assumptions about fair values require significant judgement because broad economic factors, industry factors and technology considerations can result in variable and volatile fair values. Management completed impairment analyses on both goodwill and indefinite life intangibles in the 2003 fourth quarter. These tests were performed internally. As of December 31, 2003, no goodwill impairment existed. Similarly, wireless spectrum and trademark value were not impaired. 28 However, in the 2003 third quarter, the FON Groups global markets division decided to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy using its MMDS spectrum. This decision required an impairment analysis of the asset. Sprint FON Group recorded a pre tax, non cash charge of $1.2 billion related to the write down in the fair value of its MMDS spectrum. Sprint is now focusing its efforts on a broad range of alternative strategies. Sprint is continuing to invest in the spectrum, is monitoring technology and industry developments, and is involved in efforts to achieve favorable regulatory rulings with respect to this spectrum. Employee Benefit Plan Assumptions Retirement benefits are a significant cost of doing business for Sprint and yet represent obligations that will be settled far in the future. Retirement benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of the future benefit costs over the employees approximate service period based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made by Sprint. The accounting requires that management make assumptions regarding such variables as the return on assets, the discount rate and future health care costs. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligation and periodic benefit cost incurred by Sprint. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to retirement benefit accounting is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about discount rates, future health care costs, and future return on assets funding the obligation; and (2) the impact that changes in actual performance versus these estimates would have on the projected benefit obligation reported on our balance sheet and the benefit cost could be material. In determining pension obligations assumptions are required concerning market performance. Market performance has fluctuated in the recent past and could have continued volatility in the future. In selecting its assumptions, Sprint uses historical experience, as well as objective indices, as benchmarks, and tests the benchmarks against historical industry data on these assumptions provided by an independent actuary. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the reported projected benefit obligation. In contrast, if the discount rate in 2003 used in determining the projected benefit obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $137 million increase in the projected benefit obligation reported on the balance sheet, and an $18 million increase in the benefit costs. Similarly, if the expected return on assets assumption was 25 basis points lower, it would generate an $8 million increase in current year benefit costs. This assumption is not used in calculation of the pension projected benefit obligation. In determining post retirement medical and life insurance benefit obligations, assumptions are made concerning the cost of health care. A one percentage point increase in the assumed medical inflation rate would generate a $107 million increase in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a $6 million increase in benefit expense. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the reported accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. In contrast, if the discount rate in 2003 used in determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $25 million increase in the reported year end 2003 obligation and a $2 million increase in benefit expense. Allocation Policies between Tracking Stocks As discussed previously, the FON common stock is intended to reflect the financial results and economic value of the FON Group and the PCS common stock is intended to reflect the financial results and economic value of the PCS Group. The FON common stock and the PCS common stock are both classes of the common stock of Sprint, and together, the groups reflect 100% of Sprints business activities. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to allocation policies is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about market interest rates and group use of shared costs; and (2) the impact that recognizing a change in this allocation would have on the net assets, use of resources or operating results of either group could be material. Allocation policies regarding shared activities impact the business results of the FON Group and the PCS Group. Sprint performs internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of assignment of costs when direct assignment is not possible or practical. The methods used for indirect assignment include time studies, and factors related to marketing or headcount studies. Sprint manages the financing activities of the groups on a centralized basis. Debt incurred by Sprint on behalf of the groups is specifically allocated to and reflected in the financial statements of the applicable group. Interest expense is assigned to the PCS Group based on an estimated rate that is substantially equal to the rate it would be able to obtain from third parties as a direct or indirect wholly owned Sprint subsidiary, but without the benefit of any guarantee by Sprint or any member of the FON Group. Additionally, Sprints 29 centralized cash management program allows one group to advance funds to the other group. These advances are accounted for as short term borrowings between the groups and bear interest at a rate that is substantially equal to the rate that group would be able to obtain from third parties on a short term basis. Management utilizes credit rating agencies and investment banks to provide an objective basis for determining appropriate assumptions concerning market interest rates. Sprint uses this information in arriving at the assumptions used to determine our allocations. The allocation of assets, financial resources and certain expenses require judgement by management and the allocation methods used are subject to the discretion of the board of directors in its fulfillment of its fiduciary duties to all of Sprints shareholders. Holders of FON stock and PCS stock may have interests that differ from or conflict with the interests of holders of the other stock. Our tracking stock policies provide that our board of directors, in resolving material matters in which holders of FON stock and PCS stock have potentially divergent interests, will act in the best interest of Sprint and all of its common stockholders after giving fair consideration to the potentially divergent interests of the holders of the separate classes of common stock. Tax Valuation Allowances Sprint is required to estimate the amount of tax payable or refundable for the current year and the deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in its financial statements or tax returns for each taxing jurisdiction in which it operates. This process requires Sprints management to make assessments regarding the timing and probability of the ultimate tax impact. Sprint records valuation allowances on deferred tax assets to reflect the expected realizable future tax benefits. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, significant changes in the jurisdictions in which Sprint operates, Sprints inability to generate sufficient future taxable income or unpredicted results from the final determination of each years liability by taxing authorities. These changes can have a significant impact on the financial position of Sprint. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to establishing tax valuation allowances is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assessments about the timing of future events, including the probability of expected future taxable income and available tax planning opportunities, and (2) the impact changes in actual performance versus these estimates could have on the realization of tax benefit as reported in our results of operations could be material. Managements assumptions require significant judgement because actual performance has fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so. Sprint currently carries an income tax valuation allowance of $620 million on its books. This amount includes a valuation allowance for the total tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards which were acquired in connection with certain acquisitions. The remainder of the valuation allowance relates to state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Assumption changes which result in a reduction of expected benefits from realization of state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards by 10% would increase our valuation allowance by $30 million for PCS Group and $5 million for FON Group. Revenue Recognition Policies Sprint recognizes operating revenues as services are rendered or as products are delivered to customers in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition. In connection with recording revenue, estimates and assumptions are required in determining the expected conversion of the revenue streams to cash collected. The revenue estimation process requires management to make assumptions based on historical results, future expectations, the economic and competitive environment, changes in the credit worthiness of our customers, and other relevant factors. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projection of cash collected and the periodic revenue stream recognized by Sprint. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to the establishment of revenue and receivable reserves and the associated provisions in the results of operations is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about future billing adjustments for disputes with customers, unauthorized usage, future returns on asset sales and future access adjustments for disputes with competitive local exchange carriers and inter exchange carriers, as well as the future economic viability of our customer base; and (2) the impact of changes in actual performance versus these estimates would have on the accounts receivable reported on our balance sheet and the results reported in our statements of operations could be material. In selecting these assumptions, Sprint uses historical trending of write offs, industry norms, regulatory decisions and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions which might impact the collectibility of accounts. 30 Segmental Results of Operations  Sprints business is divided into three segments: the global markets division, the local division, and the PCS wireless telephony products and services business. Global Markets Division The global markets division provides a broad suite of communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice; data communications using various protocols such as Internet Protocol (IP) and frame relay (a data service that transfers packets of data over Sprints network), and managed network services. Additionally, the global markets division provides local service using Sprints facilities, leased facilities or unbundled network elements provided by other carriers in a total of 36 states and the District of Columbia. The global markets division is selling into the cable telephony market through arrangements with cable companies that resell Sprint long distance service and use Sprint back office systems and network assets in support of their local telephone service provided over cable facilities. In addition, the global markets division provides consulting services and international data communications. The global markets division also includes the operating results of the wireless high speed data and cable TV service operations of the broadband fixed wireless companies. In 2001, Sprint announced it would halt further deployment of MMDS using current line of sight technology. In 2003, Sprints ongoing evaluation of its business use for the MMDS spectrum resulted in a decision to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy. This decision required an impairment analysis of this asset, resulting in a pre tax, non cash charge of $1.2 billion. Sprint is now focusing its efforts on a broad range of alternative strategies. Sprint is continuing to invest in the spectrum, is monitoring technology and industry developments, and is involved in efforts to achieve favorable regulatory rulings with respect to this spectrum. In 2003, Sprint announced the wind down of its web hosting business. 2003 2002 2001 (millions) Net operating revenues Voice $ 4,994 $ 5,768 $ 6,610 Data 1,845 1,847 1,857 Internet 973 1,009 964 Other 180 319 485 Total net operating revenues 7,992 8,943 9,916 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 4,245 5,015 6,004 Selling, general and administrative 2,227 2,455 2,955 Depreciation and amortization 1,428 1,479 1,318 Restructuring and asset impairments 1,564 194 1,688 Total operating expenses 9,464 9,143 11,965 Operating income (loss) $ (1,472 ) $ (200 ) $ (2,049 ) Capital expenditures $ 325 $ 733 $ 3,580 The global markets division continued to face significant challenges in 2003. The decline in voice revenues and loss of revenues from a low margin wholesale customer contributed to an 11% decline in net operating revenues. This, along with the write down in the MMDS spectrum, resulted in an operating loss for the year. Throughout 2003, the global markets division focused on cost management. In 2003, the global markets division achieved a double digit reduction in costs of services and products, and a 9% reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses. In 2003, Sprint undertook initiatives to improve operational efficiency and reduce costs. These actions, along with a pre tax, non cash charge of $1.2 billion related to the write down to fair value of its MMDS spectrum, resulted in a $1,564 million net charge to the global markets divisions operations. Sprint expects revenues to decline in 2004 as the division continues to be impacted by intense competitive pressures. These declines are expected to be somewhat offset by growing contributions from sales of strategic products. In addition, Sprint expects the transformation to a customer centric organization to allow us to offer competitive differentiation, in an effort to increase our customers loyalty. Net Operating Revenues Net operating revenues decreased 11% in 2003 and 10% in 2002. Loss of a major wholesale customer and a large prepaid customer drove a minute volume decline of 3% in 2003. Minute growth of 5% in 2002 was driven in 31 part by an increase in business minutes sold to the PCS Group, which was partially offset by the highly competitive pricing pressures on voice services. The decrease in 2002 net operating revenues also reflects the loss of revenues from this major wholesale customer. Voice Revenues Voice revenues decreased 13% in both 2003 and 2002. The 2003 and 2002 decreases are the result of a decline in consumer voice revenue due to wireless and e mail substitution, aggressive competition from Regional Bell Operating Companies for consumer and small business customers and lower business voice pricing. Results in 2003 and 2002 were also impacted by the loss of a single major wholesale customer. Data Revenues Data revenues reflect sales of current generation data services including asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) and frame relay services. Data revenues were flat in both 2003 and 2002. In 2003, increases in frame relay were offset by a decline in both ATM and private line. In 2002, increases in frame relay and ATM were offset by a decline in private line. Internet Revenues Internet revenues decreased 4% in 2003 and increased 5% in 2002. The 2003 decrease is primarily the result of a decline in dial IP due to the final contractually scheduled repricing of the America Online, Inc., dial IP agreement, partially offset by revenues from a fourth quarter partial buyout of a portion of a dial IP contract. The 2002 increase was due to growth in dedicated IP revenues partially offset by a decrease in dial IP due to repricing of contracts and growth in web hosting. While Sprint has made the decision to exit the web hosting business, the 2003 period still reflects the increased web hosting revenue in the 2003 first and second quarters. Other Revenues Other revenues decreased 44% in 2003 and 34% in 2002. The decreases are primarily due to the sale of our consulting services business, Paranet, in the third quarter of 2002 and declines in miscellaneous equipment sales. During the 2002 and 2001 periods, cable capacity sales and sales of ownership rights to transoceanic cable represented less than 0.02% and 0.2% of global market divisions net operating revenues, respectively. These transactions were executed primarily with Global One, and were in accordance with our transition services agreement. In 2003, the global markets division did not have any cable capacity sales. Equipment sales completed in each of the periods discussed were routine in nature, were completed to support customer purchases of related telecommunications services, and represented less than 1.5%, 2%, and 3% of global market divisions net operating revenues for the 2003, 2002, and 2001 periods, respectively. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include interconnection costs paid to local phone companies, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by the divisions domestic customers, costs to operate and maintain the long distance networks, and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products decreased 15% in 2003 and 16% in 2002. The 2003 decrease was due to volume declines, an improving product mix, initiatives to reduce access unit costs, favorable carrier access settlements and FCC mandated access rate reductions. The 2002 decrease was a result of FCC mandated access rate reductions, decreased network operating costs derived from Sprints 2001 fourth quarter restructuring actions, and favorable carrier access settlements, as well as other cost containment efforts, partially offset by volume growth. The FCC mandated access rate reductions took effect in July 2001, July 2002 and July 2003. Total costs of services and products for the global markets division were 53.1% of net operating revenues in 2003, 56.1% in 2002, and 60.5% in 2001. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expense decreased 9% in 2003 and 17% in 2002. The 2003 decline was due to reduced bad debt expense including the MCI (formerly WorldCom) accounts receivable settlement, restructuring efforts, and general cost controls partially offset by the costs of the executive separation agreements recorded in the second quarter of 2003 and the long term disability charge recorded in the fourth quarter of 2003. The 2002 decrease is related to restructuring efforts and tight management of discretionary expenses. 32 The reserve for bad debts requires managements judgment and is based on customer specific indicators, as well as historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues was 1.4% in 2003, 3.5% in 2002, and 3.8% in 2001. These reductions reflect an improvement in collections, aging and recoveries of previously written off accounts. Reserve for bad debt as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 11.1% in 2003, 14.9% in 2002, and 12.7% in 2001. Total SG&A expense for the global markets division was 27.9% of net operating revenues in 2003, 27.5% in 2002, and 29.8% in 2001. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used in setting depreciable lives. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 3% in 2003 and increased 12% in 2002. The 2003 decrease was due to asset impairments associated with the wind down of the web hosting business and lower capital spending. The 2002 increase is attributable to an increased asset base to meet anticipated increases in demand for voice and data related services and other growth initiatives. This increase was partially offset by the discontinuation of the amortization of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles due to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Depreciation and amortization expense was 17.9% of net operating revenues in 2003, 16.5% in 2002, and 13.3% in 2001. Restructuring and Asset Impairments In the 2003 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded restructuring charges representing severance costs associated with Sprints transformation to a customer focused organization offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities. This resulted in an expense reduction of $33 million allocated to the global markets division. In the 2003 third quarter, the FON Group recorded a pre tax, non cash charge of $1.2 billion related to the write down in the fair value of its MMDS spectrum. Sprints ongoing evaluation of its business use for this asset resulted in a decision to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy. This decision required an impairment analysis of the asset. Sprint is now focusing its efforts on a broad range of alternative strategies. Sprint is continuing to invest in the spectrum, is monitoring technology and industry developments, and is involved in efforts to achieve favorable regulatory rulings with respect to this spectrum. In the 2003 second quarter, Sprint announced the wind down of its web hosting business. Restructurings of other global markets division operations also occurred in the continuing effort to create a more efficient cost structure. These decisions resulted in pre tax charges of $348 million in the 2003 second quarter, $2 million in the 2003 third quarter and $26 million in the 2003 fourth quarter. The charge for asset impairments was $316 million, the charge for employee terminations was $15 million and the remaining $45 million was accrued for facility lease terminations. Sprint will record additional wind down related charges for facility lease terminations, customer migration, employee termination, and other wind down costs in subsequent periods. Sprint expects the aggregate pre tax charge associated with the wind down of the web hosting business to be approximately $440 million. In the 2002 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded a net restructuring charge of $57 million to the global markets division related to consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations as well as additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. Additionally, it recorded a network asset impairment related to the global markets division of $14 million. Sprint recorded a net restructuring charge and asset impairment of $123 million related to the global markets division in the 2002 third quarter. This consisted of a $202 million charge for the termination of high speed data services, as well as additional steps to reduce operating costs. The charge was partially offset by a $79 million adjustment to finalize the restructuring charge taken in the 2001 fourth quarter to abandon the ION initiative and restructure operations in the global markets division. The 2001 fourth quarter actions, which resulted in a $1.7 billion charge to the global markets division, were taken in an effort to better focus on enterprise data and Internet services and to aggressively manage costs. For additional information see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Local Division The local division consists mainly of regulated local phone companies serving approximately 7.9 million access lines in 18 states. The local division provides local voice and data services, including digital subscriber line (DSL), for customers within its franchise territories, access by phone customers and other carriers to the local divisions 33 local network, nationwide long distance services to residential customers located within its franchise territories, sales of telecommunications equipment, and other services within specified calling areas to residential and business customers. The local division provides wireless services to customers in its franchise territories through agency relationships. DSL enables high speed transmission of data over existing copper telephone lines. 2003 2002 2001 (millions) Net operating revenues Voice $ 4,659 $ 4,810 $ 4,877 Data 737 646 569 Other 747 801 848 Total net operating revenues 6,143 6,257 6,294 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 1,950 1,945 2,002 Selling, general and administrative 1,296 1,269 1,280 Depreciation 1,085 1,157 1,120 Restructuring and asset impairments 24 56 109 Total operating expenses 4,355 4,427 4,511 Operating income (loss) $ 1,788 $ 1,830 $ 1,783 Operating margin 29.1 % 29.2 % 28.3 % Capital expenditures $ 1,240 $ 1,286 $ 1,337 In 2003, the local division continued to be impacted by the economic environment, broadband competition for high speed data in the consumer market, competition and product substitution for business customers and wireless substitution resulting in a decline in access lines and minutes of use. In 2003, Sprint recorded restructuring charges associated with Sprints transformation to a customer focused organization offset by the finalization of 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities. These actions resulted in a $20 million charge to the local divisions operations. Additionally, a $4 million asset impairment was recorded related to the termination of a partnership to provide video on demand to hotels. The local division expects a small revenue decline in 2004. Increases in revenue associated with bundled services and broadband sales is expected to be offset by a modest decline in access lines. Net Operating Revenues Net operating revenues decreased 2% in 2003 and less than 1% in 2002. The slight decrease in both years was due to declines in long distance, fewer access lines and declines in equipment sales being partially offset by an increase in network based services and DSL services. The local division ended 2003 with just over 7.9 million switched access lines, a decrease of 2.2% from the prior year. Access lines decreased 1.7% in 2002. The decreases in 2003 and 2002 were driven by wireless and broadband substitution, losses to competitive local providers, and the economic environment. The reduction in access lines is expected to continue although Sprint expects its ongoing rate of line loss to be less than loss rates experienced by other major carriers. Voice Revenues Voice revenues, derived from local exchange services, long distance revenue and switched access revenue decreased 3% in 2003 and 1% in 2002 due to lower long distance minutes of use and the decrease in access lines, partially offset by the demand for network based services driven by the success of bundled offerings. Data Revenues Data revenues are mainly derived from DSL, local data transport services, and special access. Data revenues increased 14% in both 2003 and 2002 mainly as a result of strong growth in DSL services. Other Revenues Other revenues decreased 7% in 2003 and 6% in 2002. These decreases were driven by a decline in equipment sales of 10% in 2003 and 14% in 2002. The decreases in equipment sales were a result of both a planned shift in focus to selling higher margin products and a reduction in customer demand for equipment. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include costs to operate and maintain the local network and costs of equipment sales. These costs were flat in 2003 and decreased 3% in 2002. In 2003, general expense controls and lower 34 costs associated with long distance revenues were offset by higher pension costs. In 2002, the decrease was driven mainly by a reduction in reciprocal compensation expense, lower costs associated with long distance revenues, reduced volume of equipment sales, and a decline in other taxes due to changes in certain state tax laws. Costs of services and products were 31.7% of net operating revenues in 2003, 31.1% in 2002, and 31.8% in 2001. Selling, General and Administrative Expense SG&A expense increased 2% in 2003. In 2002, SG&A decreased 1% despite increases in bad debt expense. The 2003 increase is driven by the long term disability charge recorded in the fourth quarter, the executive separation agreements and higher pension costs somewhat offset by general cost controls and lower bad debt expense. The reserve for bad debt requires managements judgment and is based on historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues was 0.9% in 2003, 2.6% in 2002, and 2.5% in 2001. Reserve for bad debt expense as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 8.6% in 2003, 13.9% in 2002, and 6.9% in 2001. In 2003, the local division experienced continued improvement in its bad debt experience with end user customers as well as recoveries from previously written off accounts, principally MCI (formerly WorldCom). In 2002, improved bad debt experience with end user customers was more than offset by the need to establish reserves for certain competitive local exchange carriers and long distance companies, including WorldCom (now MCI), with financial difficulties. SG&A expense was 21.1% of net operating revenues in 2003, 20.3% in 2002, and 20.3% in 2001. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used in setting depreciable lives. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 6% in 2003 and increased 3% in 2002. The 2003 decrease was driven by the implementation of SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which eliminated the accrual for removal cost from the depreciable rate, as well as declines in circuit switching depreciation rates due to a revised schedule for converting from a digital to a packet network. For further information on the implementation of SFAS No. 143 see Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The 2002 increase reflects capital spending to support voice grade equivalent growth, service improvements, and ongoing build out of DSL services. Depreciation and amortization expense was 17.7% of net operating revenues in 2003, 18.5% in 2002, and 17.8% in 2001. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In the 2003 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded restructuring charges representing severance costs associated with Sprints transformation to a customer focused organization offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities. Net charges to the local division related to these items were $20 million. A $4 million asset impairment, also recorded by the local division, related to the termination of a partnership to provide video on demand to hotels. In the 2002 fourth quarter, Sprint recorded a restructuring charge representing consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, as well as additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. This decision resulted in a charge of $53 million to the local division. In the fourth quarter of 2001, Sprint announced plans to take steps to improve its competitive position and reduce operating costs in the business units that comprise its FON Group. These efforts included consolidation and streamlining of marketing and network operations, as well as streamlining of corporate support functions. This decision resulted in a charge of $109 million associated with the severance costs of the work force reductions and contractual obligations. In the 2002 third quarter, Sprint performed an analysis to finalize the restructuring estimates recorded in the 2001 fourth quarter. This analysis resulted in the recognition of an additional charge of $3 million being recorded in the 2002 third quarter. For additional information see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Other businesses consist primarily of wholesale sales of telecommunications equipment. Net operating revenues were $840 million in 2003, $863 million in 2002, and $1,206 million in 2001. Nonaffiliated revenues, which accounted for 35% of revenues in 2003, declined 5% as capital spending continued to decline in the 35 telecommunications industry. Operating expenses decreased 2% in 2003 and 24% in 2002 driven by reduced cost of services and products. Operating loss for 2003 and 2002 was $32 million and $23 million, respectively, while operating income was $34 million in 2001. In 2004, Sprint plans to continue to leverage its web enabled capabilities to improve revenues and expand value added services. PCS Group The PCS Group operates a 100% digital PCS wireless network with licenses to provide service to the entire United States population, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, using a single frequency band and a single technology. The PCS Group, together with third party affiliates, operates PCS systems in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas. The PCS Groups service, including third party affiliates, reaches a quarter billion people. The PCS Group, combined with our wholesale and affiliate partners, served more than 20 million customers at the end of 2003. The PCS Group provides nationwide service through a combination of: operating its own digital network in major U.S. metropolitan areas using code division multiple access (CDMA), which is a digital spread spectrum wireless technology that allows a large number of users to access a single frequency band by assigning a code to all speech bits, sending a scrambled transmission of the encoded speech over the air and reassembling the speech into its original format, affiliating with other companies that use CDMA, mainly in and around smaller U.S. metropolitan areas, roaming on other providers analog cellular networks using multi mode and multi band handsets, and roaming on other providers digital networks that use CDMA. Sprint PCS customers can use their phones through roaming agreements in countries other than the United States, including areas of: Asia Pacific, including China, Guam, Hong Kong and New Zealand, Canada and Mexico, Central and South America, including Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Paraguay and Uruguay, and Most major Caribbean Islands. Sprint launched nationwide third generation (3G) capability in the 2002 third quarter. This capability allows more efficient utilization of the network when voice calls are made using 3G enabled handsets. It also provides enhanced data services. The service, marketed as PCS Vision, allows consumer and business customers to use their Vision enabled PCS devices to exchange instant messages, exchange personal and corporate e mail, take, send and receive pictures, play games with full color graphics and polyphonic sounds and browse the Internet wirelessly with speeds up to 144 kbps (with average speeds of 50 to 70 kbps). The PCS Group supplements its own network through affiliation arrangements with other companies that use CDMA. Under these arrangements, these companies offer PCS services using Sprints spectrum under the Sprint brand name on CDMA networks built and operated at their own expense. Several of these affiliates are experiencing financial difficulties and are evaluating or have completed restructuring activities. Two affiliates have filed for bankruptcy protection and made claims against us in the bankruptcy courts. One other affiliate has filed suit against us. Several of the affiliates are disputing and refusing to pay amounts owed to Sprint. Reserves have been established that are expected to provide for the ultimate resolution of these disputes, and Sprint is in negotiations with some of the affiliates regarding restructuring its relationship with them. Sprint has reached agreements with several of its affiliates, including two of the largest who have completed restructuring activities. Sprint has amended the existing agreements to provide for a simplified pricing mechanism, as well as refining and changing various business processes. The amended agreements cover approximately 40% of the customers served by all affiliates. The agreements provide simplified and predictable long term pricing for service bureau fees and stability to the rates charged for inter area service fees. In addition, Sprint and the companies settled all significant outstanding disputes. The revised terms under the agreements are expected to have an immaterial impact on future PCS Group results. The PCS Group may incur additional expenses to ensure that service is available to its customers in the areas served by its affiliates. If any of the PCS Group affiliates cease operations, the PCS Group may incur roaming charges in areas where service was previously provided by the affiliates and costs to meet FCC buildout and renewal requirements, as well as experience lower revenues. 36 The PCS Group also provides wireless services to companies that resell wireless services to their customers on a retail basis under their own brand. These companies bear the costs of acquisition, billing and customer service. In the 2003 third quarter, Sprint executed a five year wholesale agreement with Qwest Communications (Qwest) whereby Qwest wireless subscribers will use Sprints national PCS network and have access to Sprint branded Vision data services. Qwest will continue to provide sales and service support to its wireless customers, including the promotion and sale of handsets and price plans, as well as provide customer service, including billing and account information. Sprint will serve as the exclusive provider to Qwest of wireless services for resale in the markets served by the PCS Group. The transition of customers to the PCS network will begin in early 2004. The wireless industry, including the PCS Group, typically generates a higher number of subscriber additions and handset sales in the fourth quarter of each year compared to the other quarters. This is due to the use of retail distribution, which is dependent on the holiday shopping season; the timing of new products and service introductions; and aggressive marketing and sales promotions. 2003 2002 2001 (millions) Net operating revenues $ 12,690 $ 12,074 $ 9,725 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 6,155 5,783 5,295 Selling, general and administrative 3,136 3,411 2,917 Depreciation and amortization 2,486 2,267 2,150 Restructuring and asset impairment 362 138 10 Total operating expenses 12,139 11,599 10,372 Operating income (loss) $ 551 $ 475 $ (647 ) Capital expenditures $ 2,150 $ 2,668 $ 3,751 The PCS Group made progress in improving its operating and service measures in 2003. The PCS Group exited the year with a 5% increase in net operating revenues and a $76 million improvement in operating income. In 2004, Sprint expects the PCS Group to grow its customer base, while continuing to make strides towards a customer centric organization. Competitive pressure on price is expected to continue, but is expected to be partially offset by increased usage and revenues from PCS Vision services, including data, e mail, instant messaging, taking, sending and receiving photographs, games and Internet browsing, and Ready Link, a two way walkie talkie style communication. Sprint is a leader in wireless data, with over one third of our PCS customer base subscribing to our 3G network. We continue to evaluate next generation wireless high speed data network options to ensure we maintain a leadership position, as well as to support our integration strategies. The PCS Group markets its products through multiple distribution channels, including its own retail stores as well as other retail outlets. Equipment sales to one retail chain and the subsequent service revenues generated by sales to its customers accounted for 21% of net operating revenues in 2003, 22% in 2002 and 24% in 2001. Net Operating Revenues 2003 2002 2001 Customers at year end (millions) 15.9 14.8 13.6 Average monthly service revenue per user (ARPU) $ 61 $ 62 $ 61 Average monthly service revenue per user (ARPU) is calculated by dividing wireless service revenues by weighted average monthly wireless subscribers. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for the calculation. ARPU, which is used by most wireless companies, is a method of valuing the recurring activity by measuring revenue on a per user basis. Analysts and investors primarily use ARPU to compare relative value across the wireless industry. Net operating revenues include service revenues and sales of handsets and accessory equipment. Service revenues consist of monthly recurring charges, usage charges, a pro rata portion of activation fees and miscellaneous fees such as directory assistance, operator assisted calling, handset insurance and late payment charges. In 2003, Sprint saw increased pricing pressures and lower overage charges from usage based plans, 37 which were offset by customers subscribing to higher usage service plans, increased revenues from data services and increased fees. Average monthly usage in 2003 was 13 hours compared to 10 hours in 2002. At the end of the period more than one third of the customer base was using data services compared to approximately 20% at the end of 2002. The PCS Group had 1.1 million post paid retail customer additions in 2003 to end the year with 15.9 million customers. Resellers added 1.2 million customers in 2003, increasing their customer base to 1.6 million from 415,000 in 2002, principally due to Virgin Mobile, USA. The PCS Group third party affiliates added more than 297,000 customers in 2003. This brings the total number of customers served on the PCS network, including post paid retail, affiliate, and resale customers, to approximately 20.4 million in more than 300 metropolitan markets nationwide at the 2003 year end. In 2003, nearly 37 percent of new post paid retail customers chose to include PCS Vision in their service package. Service revenues increased 6% in 2003 mainly reflecting an increase in the number of direct customers, increased revenue from wholesale and affiliate partners, and stable ARPU. Service revenues increased 27% in 2002 mainly reflecting an increase in the number of customers and stable ARPU. In 2002, increased pricing pressures were offset by customers subscribing to higher usage service plans, and increased miscellaneous fees in 2001 and late payment fees in 2002. The PCS Group had 1.2 million post paid retail customer additions in 2002 to end the year with 14.8 million customers. Resellers added 196,000 customers in 2002, which increased their customer base to 415,000 from 219,000 in 2001, principally due to Virgin Mobile, USA. The PCS Group third party affiliates added more than 544,000 customers in 2002, bringing the total number of customers served on the PCS network, including post paid retail, affiliates and resale customers, to more than 17.7 million. Customer churn is calculated by dividing the customers who discontinued PCS service by the weighted average subscribers for the period. This is an operational measure which is used by most wireless companies as a method of estimating the life of the customer. Analysts and investors primarily use churn to compare relative value across the wireless industry. In 2003, the customer churn rate decreased to 2.7% from 3.3% in 2002. This was a slight increase from 2.6% in 2001. The 2003 improvement was primarily due to a reduction in the involuntary churn rate as the PCS Group benefited from effective customer retention programs and credit management policies initiated in the 2002 fourth quarter. This improvement was partially offset by a slight increase in voluntary churn due in part to the institution of WLNP in the fourth quarter of 2003. The 2002 increase resulted primarily from company initiated churn largely associated with the deactivation of Clear Pay customers, as well as a slight increase in the voluntary churn rate. In November 2003, WLNP was instituted for the 100 largest markets across the United States. While the PCS Group experienced an increase in churn in December following WLNP implementation, the fourth quarter impact on net additions was immaterial. We intend to implement WLNP beyond the 100 largest markets in May 2004. The vast majority of PCS customers are resident in the 100 largest markets where WLNP is already available. Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories, including new customers and upgrades, were approximately 9.0% of net operating revenues in 2003, 10.0% in 2002 and 11.8% in 2001. These declines were mainly due to higher rebates and lower gross additions. As part of the PCS Groups marketing plans, handsets, net of rebates, are usually sold at prices below cost. Other service revenues consist of net fees collected from affiliates for network operation and customer maintenance and also include revenues from the wholesale of PCS services to companies that resell to their customers on a retail basis. Other revenues represented 2.6% of net operating revenues in 2003, 1.8% in 2002 and 2.9% in 2001. The 2003 increase mainly reflects net additions to the affiliate base and the wholesale customer base through Virgin Mobile, USA. The 2002 decrease is primarily due to discontinuation of a specific reseller program. The PCS Group assesses access charges to long distance carriers for the termination of landline originated calls. Though regulations generally entitle a carrier that terminates a call on behalf of another to be compensated for providing that service, these regulations were developed in a period where services of this nature were provided exclusively by local exchange carriers. Many long distance carriers have disputed the PCS Groups assessment of these charges, as well as the corresponding rate at which the charges were determined. In July 2002, the FCC released a ruling affirming that nothing prohibited wireless carriers from imposing access charges for the use of their networks; however, the FCC also stated that inter exchange carriers could not be unilaterally required to pay these charges without a contractual obligation to do so. The FCC referred the dispute back to the Federal District Court for the Western District of Missouri for a determination whether the PCS Group has stated a claim under 38 Missouri State law where the case is still pending. The FCC ruling was affirmed by the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. In light of this ruling, in the 2002 second quarter the PCS Group recorded an additional provision for outstanding receivables related to amounts previously billed. Cost of Services and Products The PCS Groups costs of services and products mainly include handset and accessory costs, switch and cell site expenses, customer service costs and other network related costs. These costs increased 6% in 2003 and 9% in 2002. The increases are primarily due to network support of a larger customer base, higher minutes of use, expanded market coverage and increased handset unit costs. These increases are somewhat offset by decreases in customer service expense. Handset and equipment costs were 39% of total costs of services and products in 2003 and 2002 and 37% in 2001. Costs of services and products were 48.5% of net operating revenue in 2003, 47.9% in 2002 and 54.4% in 2001. Selling, General and Administrative Expense SG&A expense mainly includes marketing costs to promote products and services as well as salary and benefit costs. SG&A expense decreased 8% in 2003 compared to an increase of 17% in 2002. The 2003 decrease was primarily due to a decline in bad debt expense due to a better credit class mix, leading to lower write offs and higher recovery. This decrease was partially offset by increases in other sales and marketing costs due to more competitive market conditions and expanded direct sales presence and the executive separation agreements. The 2002 increase reflects increased marketing and selling costs associated with the PCS Vision launch and increased bad debt expense. SG&A expense was 24.7% of net operating revenues in 2003, 28.3% in 2002 and 30.0% in 2001. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was 2.3% in 2003, 5.1% in 2002 and 3.9% in 2001. Reserve for bad debt as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 7.3% in 2003, 9.4% in 2002, and 9.1% in 2001. The 2003 improvements were mainly driven by credit management policies initiated in the 2002 fourth quarter resulting in lower involuntary churn and improved receivables aging. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used in setting depreciable lives. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation and amortization expense consists mainly of depreciation of network assets and amortization of intangible assets. The definite life intangible assets include various customer bases, which became fully amortized in August 2002. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 10% in 2003 and 5% in 2002 mainly reflecting depreciation of the network assets placed in service during 2002 and 2003. Amortization of goodwill and indefinite life intangibles ceased upon adoption of SFAS No. 142 at January 1, 2002. Depreciation and amortization expense was 19.6% of net operating revenues in 2003, 18.8% in 2002, and 22.1% in 2001. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In 2003, the PCS Group recorded asset impairments of $349 million primarily related to the termination of development of a new billing platform. The PCS Group also recorded a restructuring charge of $13 million for severance costs associated with Sprints transformation to a customer focused organization and contractual obligations related to the terminated development of a new billing platform, offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring activities. In 2002, the PCS Group recorded a restructuring charge of $78 million representing the consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, as well as other reductions to create a more competitive cost structure by reducing operating expenses. Additionally, the PCS Group recorded an asset impairment of $42 million representing abandoned network projects. In 2002, the PCS Group incurred an $18 million charge associated with the closing of five PCS customer solution centers, as well as additional steps to reduce operating costs in the PCS business units. In 2001, Sprint consolidated and streamlined marketing and network operations, as well as streamlined corporate support functions. This resulted in a charge of $10 million to the PCS Group associated with severance costs and termination of contractual obligations. For additional information see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 39 Nonoperating Items  Interest Expense The effective interest rates in the following table reflect interest expense on long term debt only. Interest costs on short term borrowings and interest costs on deferred compensation plans have been excluded so as not to distort the effective interest rates on long term debt. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on Sprints financing activities. 2003 2002 2001 Effective interest rate on long term debt 7.0 % 6.9 % 6.7 % The effective interest rate includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements. See Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more details regarding interest rate swaps. Sprints effective interest rate on long term debt increased in 2003 due to the retirement of fixed rate debt with lower interest rates. The effective interest rate increased in 2002 due to additional fixed rate debt with higher interest rates. Allocation of Group Financing Financing activities for the groups are managed by Sprint on a centralized basis. Debt incurred by Sprint on behalf of the groups is specifically allocated to and reflected in the financial statements of the applicable group. Interest expense is allocated to the PCS Group based on an interest rate that is substantially equal to the rate it would be able to obtain from third parties as a direct or indirect wholly owned Sprint subsidiary, but without the benefit of any guarantee by Sprint or any member of the FON Group. That interest rate is higher than the rate Sprint obtains on borrowings. The difference between Sprints actual interest rate and the rate charged to the PCS Group is reflected as a reduction in the FON Groups interest expense and totaled $374 million in 2003, $336 million in 2002, and $288 million in 2001. These amounts are reflected in the Intergroup interest charge on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The FON Group earned intergroup interest income and the PCS Group incurred intergroup interest expense of $15 million in 2001 primarily related to the FON Groups ownership of PCS Group debt securities. Sprint redeemed these securities in the 2001 fourth quarter. As a result of this redemption, the FON Group recognized an $11 million pre tax gain to other non operating income and the PCS Group recorded an $11 million pre tax loss to premium on early retirement of debt. Under Sprints centralized cash management program, one group may advance funds to the other group. These advances are accounted for as short term borrowings between the groups and bear interest at a market rate that is substantially equal to the rate that group would be able to obtain from third parties on a short term basis. The allocation of group financing activities may change at the discretion of the Sprint board and does not require shareholder approval. Discount (Premium) on Early Retirement of Debt In the third quarter of 2003, Sprint recorded a net premium of $2 million due to the early retirement of $118 million of debt primarily consisting of the local divisions first mortgage bonds. This debt had interest rates ranging from 5.7% to 9.3% and maturity dates ranging from 2003 to 2021. In March 2003, Sprint completed a tender offer to purchase $442 million principal amount of current senior notes before their scheduled maturity. The notes had an interest rate of 5.7% and a maturity date of November 15, 2003. A premium of $6 million was paid as part of the tender offer. Also in March 2003, Sprint completed a tender offer to purchase $635 million principal amount of its long term senior notes before their scheduled maturity. The notes had an interest rate of 5.9% and a maturity date of May 1, 2004. A premium of $13 million was paid as part of the tender offer. In 2002, Sprint repurchased, before scheduled maturities, $67 million of debt allocated to the FON Group. These borrowings had interest rates ranging from 6.0% to 7.1%. This resulted in a discount for Sprint of $4 million. In 2001, Sprint redeemed, before scheduled maturities, $18 million of debt allocated to the FON Group and $558 million of debt allocated to the PCS Group. These borrowings had interest rates ranging from 9.9% to 12.5%. This resulted in a discount of $6 million for Sprint. 40 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted of the following: 2003 2002 2001 (millions) Dividend and interest income $ 51 $ 31 $ 33 Royalties 13 9 Equity in net losses of affiliates (77 ) (117 ) (157 ) Net losses from investments (3 ) (258 ) (188 ) Gains (losses) on sales of other assets 117 10 Amortization of debt costs (35 ) (36 ) (20 ) Losses from disposal of PP&E (9 ) (13 ) (4 ) Benefit plan curtailment gain 120 Foreign currency transactions (5 ) 7 Litigation settlement (15 ) Other, net (9 ) (5 ) 4 Total $ (89 ) $ (265 ) $ (202 ) Dividend and interest income for all years reflects dividends earned on cost method investments and interest earned on temporary investments. Beginning in January 2002, Call Net began making a royalty payment of 2.5% of revenues to Sprint. Currently, this is approximately $3 million per quarter. Equity in net losses of affiliates in 2003 was primarily driven by the PCS Groups investment in Virgin Mobile, USA. Sprint made an additional investment of $20 million in Virgin Mobile, USA in 2003 and immediately recognized an equal amount of losses associated with this additional investment. The 2003 decrease was primarily lower equity loss pick ups related to Pegaso due to the 2002 sale of this investment, offset by equity losses of Virgin Mobile, USA. In 2002, equity in net losses of affiliates was driven by the PCS Groups investment in Virgin Mobile, USA and Pegaso, and the FON Groups investment in Call Net. Sprint made an additional investment of $16 million in Call Net in the 2002 second quarter and immediately recognized an equal amount of losses associated with the investment. The 2002 decrease was due to a reduction in equity losses following the write down of the investment in Intelig and the sale of Pegaso, partially offset by Virgin Mobile, USA and Call Net losses. In 2001, equity in net losses of affiliates was driven by the PCS Groups investment in Pegaso and the FON Groups investment in Intelig. In the first quarter of 2001, Sprint modified its relationship with EarthLink which resulted in its investment in common stock no longer being accounted for using the equity method. Net losses from investments in 2003 are driven by a loss on sale of EarthLink shares. The 2002 losses mainly consist of the write down of EarthLink preferred shares to market value. Net losses from investments in 2001 mainly include a $162 million write down of an equity investment in Intelig and a $25 million loss on the partial sale of EarthLink shares. Gains on sales of other assets in 2002 were driven by the sale of Sprints investment in Pegaso, certain customer contracts and stock received during a companys demutualization. Gains on sales of other assets in 2001 resulted from the sale of PCS customers to a PCS third party affiliate. The benefit plan curtailment gain in 2001 resulted from an amendment of certain medical retirement plan benefits. In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint recorded a $50 million net charge to settle shareholder litigation. In the 2003 third and fourth quarters, Sprint recorded a $17 million and $18 million credit, respectively, from insurance settlements related to this action. See Note 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes Sprints consolidated effective tax rates were 41.1% in 2003, (8.8)% in 2002, and 31.8% in 2001. See Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the differences that caused the effective income tax rates to vary from the statutory federal rate for income taxes related to continuing operations. 41 Discontinued Operations, Net In the 2002 third quarter, Sprint reached a definitive agreement to sell its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley for $2.23 billion in cash. The sale closed on January 3, 2003. The pretax gain recognized in 2003 was $2.14 billion, $1.32 billion after tax.  Financial Condition 2003 2002 (millions) FON Group $ 21,862 $ 23,133 PCS Group 21,846 23,022 Intergroup eliminations (858 ) (862 ) Consolidated assets $ 42,850 $ 45,293 Sprints consolidated assets decreased $2.4 billion in 2003. Cash and equivalents increased $1.4 billion due to improved operating cash flows, reduced capital expenditures and the sale of Sprints directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley in the 2003 first quarter. In connection with the gain recognized from this sale, Sprint utilized nearly $800 million in deferred tax assets. Net property, plant and equipment decreased $1.5 billion as capital expenditures were more than offset by depreciation expense and asset impairments. Spectrum licenses declined due to an impairment charge of $1.2 billion related to the write down in fair value of Sprints MMDS spectrum. The Sprint debt to total capital ratio was 58.7% at year end 2003 versus 63.7% at year end 2002. The rating agencies generally give some form of equity treatment for equity unit notes in determining debt to total capital ratios. Assuming that the Sprint equity unit notes are treated as 80% equity and 20% debt, this ratio would be 54.5% at year end 2003, versus 59.7% at year end 2002. Accordingly, this debt to total capital ratio for Sprint is calculated defining debt as short term borrowings, long term debt, capital lease obligations and 20% of the equity unit notes carrying amount. Total capital is defined as debt, plus the remaining 80% of the equity unit notes value, redeemable preferred stock and total shareholders equity. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information about changes in Sprints Consolidated Balance Sheets. Liquidity and Capital Resources  Sprints board of directors exercises discretion regarding the liquidity and capital resource needs of its business segments. This includes the ability to prioritize the use of capital and debt capacity, to determine cash management policies and to make decisions regarding the timing and amount of capital expenditures. Operating Activities 2003 2002 2001 (millions) FON Group $ 4,039 $ 4,176 $ 4,457 PCS Group 2,503 2,030 106 Cash flows provided (used) by operating activities of continuing operations $ 6,542 $ 6,206 $ 4,563 Operating cash flows increased $336 million in 2003 and $1.6 billion in 2002. The 2003 increase was mainly due to growth in the PCS Group partially offset by higher working capital requirements in both the FON and PCS Groups. The 2002 increase was driven mainly by growth in the PCS Group. Cost controls and reductions in work force in the FON Group mitigated the revenue erosion seen in the global market division. The receipt of $480 million of tax refunds generated by the economic stimulus bill passed in the 2002 first quarter also contributed to the increase. The 2002 increase was partially offset by higher working capital requirements. Investing Activities 2003 2002 2001 (millions) FON Group $ (1,876 ) $ (1,987 ) $ (5,036 ) PCS Group (2,181 ) (2,608 ) (3,742 ) Cash flows provided (used) by investing activities of continuing operations $ (4,057 ) $ (4,595 ) $ (8,778 ) 42 The FON Groups capital expenditures totaled $1.7 billion in 2003, $2.2 billion in 2002, and $5.3 billion in 2001. Global markets division capital expenditures were incurred mainly to enhance network reliability and upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services. The local division incurred capital expenditures to accommodate voice grade equivalent growth, maintain or improve service delivery capabilities, expand capabilities for providing enhanced services, convert our network from circuit to next generation packet switching and continue the build out of high speed DSL services. The decline in FON Group capital expenditures was driven mainly by the termination of Sprint ION in 2001 and reduced spending for data related services. The PCS Group capital expenditures, totaling $2.2 billion in 2003, $2.7 billion in 2002, and $3.8 billion in 2001, were incurred to increase capacity and expand coverage. The 2002 and 2001 amounts also include approximately $100 million and $600 million, respectively, of expenditures related to deployment of 3G technology which was launched nationwide in 2002. Network efficiencies gained from 3G technology contributed to lower capital requirements in 2003. Investing activities also include contributions of $32 million to Virgin Mobile, USA in 2003; proceeds of $116 million due to sales and dissolutions of investments in 2002; and contributions of $66 million to EarthLink, Virgin Mobile, USA, Intelig, SVC BidCo L.P., and Pegaso in 2001. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on investments. Additionally, other investing activities include proceeds from sales of other assets totaling $101 million in 2003, $138 million in 2002, and $301 million in 2001. In 2003, investing activities mainly include proceeds from the partial sale of the FON Groups investment in EarthLink stock and proceeds from the sale of certain network and administrative assets. In 2002, investing activities mainly include proceeds from the sale of the PCS Groups investment in Pegaso and the FON Groups sale of certain customer contracts, investment securities and other administrative assets. The 2001 activities mainly include proceeds from sale of PCS customers to an affiliate and certain network and administrative assets. Financing Activities 2003 2002 2001 (millions) FON Group $ (2,702 ) $ (1,836 ) $ 463 PCS Group (627 ) 793 3,698 Cash flows provided (used) by financing activities of continuing operations $ (3,329 ) $ (1,043 ) $ 4,161 Financing activities mainly reflect a $2.9 billion reduction of debt in 2003 and a $642 million reduction in 2002, compared to a net borrowing of $4.0 billion in 2001. The reduction in the debt requirements in 2003 and 2002 was due to Sprints continuing operating cash flow improvement, reduced capital expenditures, and proceeds from the sale of Sprints directory publishing business in the 2003 first quarter. In 2001, cash provided by financing activities was used mainly to fund capital investments and working capital requirements. Financing activities also reflect net proceeds from the issuance of common stock of $12 million in 2003, $3 million in 2002, and $608 million in 2001. Sprint paid dividends of $457 million in 2003, $454 million in 2002, and $451 million in 2001. Also included in financing activities are proceeds from options exercised under Sprints employee stock benefit plans, debt issuance costs and other financing activities of $24 million in 2003, $50 million in 2002, and $16 million in 2001. Capital Requirements Sprints 2004 investing activities, mainly consisting of capital expenditures, are expected to total approximately $4.0 billion. FON Group capital expenditures are expected to be $1.6 billion. These expenditures are primarily to support the growth in demand for enterprise services. They also include investments for broadband initiatives and the phased transition from circuit to packet switching. PCS Group capital expenditures are expected to be $2.4 billion. These investments are targeted largely for network capacity and coverage. Sprint continues to review capital expenditure requirements closely and will adjust spending and capital investment in concert with growth. Dividend payments are expected to be approximately $670 million in 2004 including the impact of the recombination of the tracking stocks in April 2004. Sprint expects overall cash from operations to be $6.5 billion in 2004, with $3.6 billion from the FON Group and $2.9 billion from the PCS Group. In 1998, Sprint adopted a tax sharing agreement providing for the allocation of income taxes between the FON Group and the PCS Group. That agreement expired with the 2001 tax year and Sprint adopted a continuation of that tax sharing arrangement except for the elimination of provisions addressing certain types of acquisitions or 43 restructurings, which never became operable under the original arrangement. Sprint expects the FON Group to continue to make significant payments to the PCS Group under this arrangement because of expected PCS Group tax losses in the near future and from using the PCS Groups tax loss carryforwards. These payments reflect the PCS Groups incremental cumulative effect on Sprints consolidated federal and state tax liability and tax credit position. The PCS Group received payments from the FON Group totaling $1.1 billion in 2003, which includes $700 million in connection with the gain on the sale of Sprints directory publishing business, $360 million in 2002, and $292 million in 2001. See Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Intergroup Transactions and Allocations Allocation of Federal and State Income Taxes, for more details. Liquidity In recent years, Sprint has used the long term bond market as well as other financial markets to fund its needs. As a result of its improved liquidity position, Sprint currently does not expect to borrow funds through the capital markets in 2004 to fund capital expenditures and operating and working capital requirements. In January 2003, Sprint closed on the $2.23 billion cash sale of its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley. In June 2003, Sprint entered into a new revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The $1.0 billion facility is unsecured, with no springing liens, and is structured as a 364 day credit line with a subsequent one year, $1.0 billion term out option. Sprint does not intend to draw against this facility. Sprint had standby letters of credit serving as a backup to various obligations of approximately $134 million at year end 2003. Sprint has a PCS Group accounts receivable asset securitization facility that provides Sprint with up to $500 million of additional liquidity. The facility, which expires in 2005, is subject to annual renewals and does not include any ratings triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facility in the event of a credit rating downgrade. The maximum amount of funding available is based on numerous factors and fluctuates each month. Sprint has not drawn against the facility and slightly more than $223 million was available as of year end 2003. Sprint also has a global markets division accounts receivable asset securitization facility that provides Sprint with up to $700 million of additional liquidity. The facility, which expires in 2005, is subject to annual renewals and does not include any ratings triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facility in the event of a credit rating downgrade. The maximum amount of funding available is based on numerous factors and fluctuates each month. In February 2003, Sprint prepaid all outstanding borrowings under this facility. As of December 31, 2003, Sprint had more than $468 million total funding available under the facility. The undrawn loan facilities described above have interest rates equal to LIBOR or Prime Rate plus a spread that varies depending on Sprints credit ratings. Debt maturities, including capital lease obligations, during 2004 total $594 million. Sprints $2.4 billion cash balance at December 31, 2003, and expected net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations in excess of capital requirements of $2.0 billion in 2004 more than fund these requirements. Any borrowings Sprint may incur are ultimately limited by certain debt covenants. Sprint could borrow up to an additional $6.7 billion at year end 2003 under the most restrictive of its debt covenants. The most restrictive covenant is contained in the new revolving credit facility, which is referenced in exhibit 10(c) to this annual report on Form 10 K, and limits debt, as defined in the agreement, to a multiple of income, adjusted for various items as set forth in the agreement. The same restrictive covenant is contained in the PCS Group and the global markets division accounts receivable asset securitization facilities. Sprint is currently in compliance with all debt covenants associated with its borrowings. Sprint completed its tender offers to repurchase senior notes in March 2003 in the amount of $1.1 billion and repaid, before scheduled maturities, $118 million of debt primarily consisting of the local divisions first mortgage bonds in the 2003 third quarter. In September 2003, Sprint repaid the $300 million Export Development Canada loan. Sprint continually evaluates various factors and, as a result, may repurchase additional debt in the future. In December 2002, Sprint repurchased long term debt in the amount of $67 million. In March 2002, Sprint issued $5 billion of debt securities. These borrowings have interest rates ranging from 7.9% to 8.8% and maturities ranging from 2005 to 2032. The proceeds were allocated 5% to the FON Group and 95% to the PCS Group and were used to extinguish outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. 44 Fitch Ratings (Fitch) currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at BBB with a stable outlook. Standard and Poors Corporate Ratings (Standard and Poors) currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at BBB with a stable outlook. In June 2003, Moodys Investors Service (Moodys) raised Sprints outlook to stable. Moodys currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at Baa3. Sprints ability to fund its capital needs is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the bank, term debt and equity markets. Given the volatility in the markets, Sprint continues to monitor the markets closely and to take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable capital structure cost. Other than the remarketing of its equity unit notes as discussed in Note 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Sprint currently plans to access the markets only for extension, replacement or renewal of current credit arrangements. As of December 31, 2003, Sprints contractual obligations are summarized below and are fully disclosed in Notes 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 16 to Sprints Consolidated Financial Statements. Payments Due by Period Total Less than1 year 13years 45years After 5years (millions) Notes, bonds, debentures and other debt instruments $ 17,141 $ 518 $ 1,949 $ 3,311 $ 11,363 Equity unit notes 1,725 1,725 Capital lease obligations 294 76 195 23 Estimated future interest payments 16,046 1,356 2,414 1,930 10,346 Redeemable preferred stock 247 247 Estimated dividends on redeemable preferred stock 33 7 13 13 Operating leases 2,665 768 1,050 407 440 Unconditional purchase obligations 2,971 1,446 1,429 96 Investment commitment 10 10 Total contractual obligations $ 41,132 $ 4,181 $ 8,775 $ 6,027 $ 22,149 Unconditional Purchase Obligations The FON Group has minimum purchase commitments with various vendors through 2009. Outstanding commitments at year end 2003 were approximately $1.2 billion. The outstanding commitments consist primarily of network equipment and maintenance, access commitments, information technology services, advertising and marketing and other expenses related to normal business operations. The PCS Group has minimum purchase commitments with various vendors through 2008. Outstanding commitments at year end 2003 were approximately $1.8 billion. The outstanding commitments consist primarily of network equipment and maintenance, handset purchases, access commitments, information technology services, customer support provided by third parties, advertising and marketing and other expenses related to normal business operations. Off Balance Sheet Financing Sprint does not participate in, nor secure, financings for any unconsolidated, special purpose entities. Regulatory Developments See Legislative and Regulatory Developments in Part I. of this filing. Financial Strategies  General Risk Management Policies Sprint selectively enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate changes on its debt. Sprint also enters into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Sprint seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, the selection of only the most creditworthy counterparties, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. Sprint also controls exposure to market risk by regularly monitoring changes in foreign exchange and interest rate positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits. 45 Sprints derivative transactions are used principally for hedging purposes and comply with board approved policies. Senior management receives frequent status updates of all outstanding derivative positions. Interest Rate Risk Management Fair Value Hedges Sprint enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage exposure to interest rate movements and achieve an optimal mixture of floating and fixed rate debt while minimizing liquidity risk. The interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively convert Sprints fixed rate debt to a floating rate by receiving fixed rate amounts in exchange for floating rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. During 2003, Sprint entered into interest rate swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges. Cash Flow Hedges Sprint enters into interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the impact of interest rate movements on future interest expense by effectively converting a portion of its floating rate debt to a fixed rate. As of December 31, 2003, Sprint had no outstanding interest rate cash flow hedges. Other Derivatives In certain business transactions, Sprint is granted warrants to purchase the securities of other companies at fixed rates. These warrants are supplemental to the terms of the business transaction and are not designated as hedging instruments. During 2002 and 2003, Sprint entered into variable prepaid forward contracts to monetize equity securities held as available for sale. The derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the variability in expected cash flows related to the forecasted sale of the underlying equity securities. Foreign Exchange Risk Management Sprints foreign exchange risk management program focuses on reducing transaction exposure to optimize consolidated cash flow. Sprints primary transaction exposure results from payments made to and received from overseas telecommunications companies for completing international calls made by Sprints domestic customers and from the operation of its international subsidiaries. These international operations were not material to the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows at year end 2003. Sprint has not entered into any significant foreign currency forward contracts or other derivative instruments to reduce the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. As a result, Sprint was not subject to material foreign exchange risk. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board revised SFAS No. 132, Employers Disclosures About Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits. This statement adds to the disclosures required by SFAS No. 132. Effective for 2003 year end financial statements, additional disclosures are required for the types of assets in the plan, investment policies, plan obligations, and plan contributions for defined benefit pension plans and other defined benefit postretirement plans. For interim periods beginning after December 15, 2003, additional disclosures are required for net periodic benefit cost and plan contributions. This guidance does not change the requirements for the measurement or recognition of pension and other postretirement benefit plans prescribed by SFAS No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions, SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits, and SFAS No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions. Sprint adopted this statement effective December 31, 2003. See Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for Sprints discussion of its pension and other postretirement benefits. 46 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk The risk inherent in Sprints market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in those factors. Sprint is susceptible to certain risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Sprint does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk The communications industry is a capital intensive, technology driven business. Sprint is subject to interest rate risk primarily associated with its borrowings. Sprint selectively enters into interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate changes on its debt. Approximately 97% of Sprints debt at December 31, 2003 is fixed rate debt excluding interest rate swaps. While changes in interest rates impact the fair value of this debt, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows because Sprint intends to hold these obligations to maturity unless market conditions are favorable. As of December 31, 2003, Sprint held fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1 billion. These swaps were entered into as hedges of the fair value of a portion of our senior notes. These interest rate swaps have maturities ranging from 2008 to 2012. On a semiannual basis, Sprint pays a floating rate of interest equal to the six month LIBOR plus a fixed spread which averaged 4.0% as of December 31, 2003, and received an average interest rate equal to the coupon rates stated on the underlying senior notes of 7.2%. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the prevailing forward yield curve, the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the underlying senior notes would change by $55 million. These interest rate swaps met all the requirements for perfect effectiveness under derivative accounting rules; therefore, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows for any fair value fluctuations. Sprint performs interest rate sensitivity analyses on its variable rate debt including interest rate swaps. These analyses indicate that a one percentage point change in interest rates would have an annual pre tax impact of $13 million on the statements of operations and cash flows at December 31, 2003. While Sprints variable rate debt is subject to earnings and cash flows impacts as interest rates change, it is not subject to changes in fair values. Sprint also performs a sensitivity analysis on the fair market value of its outstanding debt. A 10% decline in market interest rates would cause a $568 million increase in fair market value of its debt to $19.7 billion. This analysis includes the hedged debt, but excludes Sprints equity unit notes. Foreign Currency Risk Sprint also enters into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Sprint uses foreign currency derivatives to hedge its foreign currency exposure related to settlement of international telecommunications access charges and the operation of its international subsidiaries. The dollar equivalent of Sprints net foreign currency payables from international settlements was $28 million and net foreign currency receivables from international operations was $32 million at December 31, 2003. The potential immediate pre tax loss to Sprint that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates based on these positions would be approximately $3 million.  
 
