Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward looking Information Sprint includes certain estimates, projections and other forward looking statements in its reports and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward looking statements. These statements reflect managements judgements based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. With respect to these forward looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs and the economic environment. Future performance cannot be ensured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: the uncertainties related to, and the impact of, our proposed merger with Nextel and the contemplated spin off of our local telecommunications business; the effects of vigorous competition and the overall demand for Sprints service offerings in the markets in which Sprint operates; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new markets; adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by ratings agencies; the ability of Wireless to continue to grow and improve profitability; the ability of Local and Long distance to achieve expected revenues; the effects of mergers and consolidations in the telecommunications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the telecommunications industry; the uncertainties related to bankruptcies affecting the telecommunications industry; the uncertainties related to Sprints investments in networks, systems, and other businesses; the uncertainties related to the implementation of Sprints business strategies, including our initiative to realign services to enhance the focus on business and individual consumers; the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on Sprints business; unexpected results of litigation filed against Sprint; the risk of equipment failure, natural disasters, terrorist acts, or other breaches of network or information technology security; the risk that third parties are unable to perform to our requirements under agreements related to our business operations; the possibility of one or more of the markets in which Sprint competes being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes or other external factors over which Sprint has no control; and other risks referenced from time to time in Sprints filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The words estimate, project, forecast, intend, expect, believe, target, providing guidance, and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are found throughout Managements Discussion and Analysis. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Sprint is not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report or unforeseen events. Sprint provides a detailed discussion of risk factors in various SEC filings, and you are encouraged to review these filings. 26 Overview Business Sprint is a global communications company offering an extensive range of innovative communication products and solutions, including wireless, long distance voice and data transport, global Internet Protocol (IP), local and multiproduct bundles. Sprint is a Fortune 100 company widely recognized for developing, engineering and deploying state of the art technologies. Sprint operates a 100% digital personal communications service (PCS) wireless network with licenses to provide service to the entire United States population, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, using a single frequency band and a single technology. Sprint, together with third party affiliates, operates PCS wireless systems in over 350 metropolitan markets, including the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas. Sprints wireless service, including third party affiliates, reaches a quarter billion people. Combined with our wholesale partners and Sprint PCS Affiliates, we served a total of 24.7 million wireless subscribers at the end of 2004. Sprint currently serves approximately 7.7 million access lines in its franchise territories in 18 states. Sprint is selling into the cable telephony market through arrangements with cable companies that resell Sprint long distance service and or use Sprint back office systems and network assets in support of their local telephone service provided over cable facilities. Sprint is one of the largest carriers of Internet traffic, and provides connectivity to any point on the Internet either through its own network or via direct connections with other backbone providers. In 2003, Sprint sold its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley for $2.23 billion in cash. Elimination of Tracking Stocks On April 23, 2004, Sprint recombined its two tracking stocks. Each share of PCS common stock automatically converted into 0.5 shares of FON common stock. As of April 23, 2004, the FON Group and the PCS Group no longer exist, and FON common stock represents all of the operations and assets of Sprint, including Wireless, Local and Long distance. Proposed Merger and Contemplated Spin off In December 2004, the boards of directors of Sprint Corporation and Nextel Communications, Inc. (Nextel) each unanimously approved a strategic merger combining Sprint and Nextel in what we intend to be a merger of equals. When the proposed merger is completed, Sprint will change its name to Sprint Nextel Corporation and the Sprint Nextel common stock will be quoted on the New York Stock Exchange. Existing shares of Sprint common stock will remain outstanding as Sprint Nextel common stock, as Sprint is the acquiring entity for legal and accounting purposes. Under the terms of the merger agreement, at closing each share of Nextel class A common stock and Nextel class B common stock will be converted into shares of Sprint Nextel common stock and Sprint Nextel non voting common stock, respectively, as well as a small per share amount of cash, with a total value expected to equal 1.3 shares of Sprint Nextel common stock. Nextel zero coupon, convertible, redeemable preferred stock will be converted into Sprint Nextel zero coupon, convertible, redeemable preferred stock. The proposed merger is subject to shareholder approval, as well as various regulatory approvals. It is subject to other customary closing conditions and is expected to be completed in the second half of 2005. Sprint and Nextel intend to spin off Sprints local telecommunications business after the proposed merger is completed. In order to facilitate the spin off on a tax free basis, the exact allocation of cash and shares of Sprint Nextel common stock that Nextel common stockholders will receive in the proposed merger will be adjusted at the time the merger is completed. The aggregate cash portion of the merger consideration is capped at $2.8 billion. Statements contained in this annual report relating to our business strategies, operating plans, planned expenditures, expected capital requirements, future dividend payments and other forward looking statements regarding our business do not take into account potential future impacts of our proposed merger with Nextel or the contemplated spin off of our local telecommunications business. 27 Business Environment Sprints operations are divided into three lines of business: Wireless, Local and Long distance operations. In the 2003 fourth quarter, Sprint undertook an initiative to realign internal resources (Organizational Realignment). This effort was implemented to enhance our focus on the needs and preferences of two distinct consumer types businesses and individuals. This effort is enabling Sprint to more effectively and efficiently use its portfolio of assets to create customer focused communications solutions. Sprint continues to measure its results using the current business segmentation, taking into consideration the re aligned customer focused approach in 2004. The Organizational Realignment resulted in and could continue to result in decisions requiring restructuring charges and asset impairments. See Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information relating to these activities. Sprint operates in an industry that has been and continues to be subject to consolidation and dynamic change. Therefore, Sprint routinely reassesses its business strategies. Due to changes in telecommunications, including bankruptcies, over capacity and the highly competitive pricing environment in all telecommunications sectors, Sprint has taken actions to appropriately allocate capital and other resources to enable sustaining cash contribution. Sprint routinely assesses the implications of these actions on its operations and these assessments may continue to impact the future valuation of its long lived assets. As part of its overall business strategy, Sprint regularly evaluates opportunities to expand and complement its business and may at any time be discussing or negotiating a transaction that, if consummated, could have a material effect on its business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. In February 2005, Sprint reached a definitive agreement with Global Signal Inc. (Global Signal) under which Global Signal will have exclusive rights to lease or operate more than 6,600 communication towers owned by Sprint for a negotiated lease term which is the greater of the remaining terms of the underlying ground leases or up to 32 years, assuming successful re negotiation of the underlying ground leases at the end of their current lease terms. Sprint has committed to sublease space on approximately 6,400 of the towers from Global Signal for a minimum of ten years. Sprint will maintain ownership of the towers, and will continue to reflect the towers on its Consolidated Balance Sheet. Results of Operations Management Overview In 2004, Sprint executed against its plan and created positive momentum moving into 2005, a period of continuing dynamic change in the telecommunications industry. Highlights of the key successes and themes which shaped the year include: At the beginning of the year, we re organized our marketing, sales and support teams to focus on the specific needs of two types of consumers businesses and individuals. We recombined our tracking stocks in the 2004 second quarter. This aligned our capital structure with our integrated asset portfolio and reflects our transition from a product focused organization to a structure driven by customer needs. We increased revenues 5% compared to 2003, primarily through growth in Wireless revenues and steady performance in Local offset by a decline in Long distance. By year end 2004, approximately 65 percent of our revenue came from wireless, internet and other data services, such as DSL. This underscores the importance of our balanced mix of assets. Even as Long distance and Local continued to feel the pressure from technology substitution, usage trends and competition, our results in growth sectors like wireless data and DSL helped offset the impacts to our bottom line. We improved the customer experience. In Wireless, we instituted Sprint PCS Fair & FlexibleSM pricing and the Better Wireless Guarantee. Subscribers are enjoying more of our advanced features and options, as was shown in the growth of data. In Local, we have been very successful with our bundled offerings, and by year end, 70 percent of households subscribed to at least one strategic product. We exceeded our debt reduction targets for 2004. We reduced debt by $2.0 billion and ended the year with more than $2.1 billion of additional cash and cash equivalents. 28 In December, we announced our proposed merger of equals with Nextel and contemplated spin off of the local telecommunications business. During the year, we faced challenges as well. In those situations, we made difficult decisions and took action to sustain momentum. We spent significant resources restoring service and normalcy to those areas impacted by the hurricanes in the Southeast region of the United States. Industry wide business conditions in the long distance industry, including highly competitive market pricing and a negative regulatory climate, triggered a re evaluation of our strategy and financial forecasts, and determined that a write down of the Long distance network of $3.52 billion was required. We recorded that impairment in value in the 2004 third quarter. The phrase we believe describes Sprint in 2004 is focused execution. Consolidated 2004 2003 2002 (millions) Net operating revenues $ 27,428 $ 26,197 $ 26,679 Income (Loss) from continuing operations $ (1,012 ) $ (292 ) $ 451 Net operating revenues increased 4.7% in 2004 reflecting growth in Wireless revenues partially offset by declining Long distance and Local revenues. Sprints income (loss) from continuing operations in 2004, 2003 and 2002 includes the after tax impacts of the items discussed below. In 2004, Sprint recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $2.3 billion related to the impairment of Sprints Long distance property, plant and equipment and severance costs associated with Sprints Organizational Realignment and Web Hosting wind down activities. Also included in 2004 was a $44 million charge related to the early retirement of senior notes and equity unit notes. These charges consist of premiums paid and the recognition of deferred debt costs. These charges were partially offset by a benefit of $9 million resulting from the receipt of the final payments of a bankruptcy settlement with MCI. In 2003, Sprint recorded net restructuring charges and asset impairments of $1.2 billion. These charges were associated with the write down due to the decline in fair value of Multipoint Multichannel Distribution Services spectrum, now called Broadband Radio Services (BRS), other asset impairment charges, facilities and severance charges associated with the termination of the web hosting business, impairment charges associated with the termination of development of a new billing platform, impairment charges associated with the termination of software development projects, and severance costs associated with Sprints transformation to a customer focused organizational design, offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities. Also included in 2003 was a $22 million charge in connection with separation agreements with three former executive officers, a $13 million charge mainly reflecting the premiums paid on a debt tender offer and the early retirement of Local debt, and a $9 million charge to settle a securities class action and derivative lawsuit relating to the failed merger with WorldCom (now MCI). These charges were partially offset by a $49 million tax benefit for recognition of certain income tax credits relating to various taxing jurisdictions and adjustments for state tax apportionments and a $31 million settlement of accounts receivable claims with MCI that had previously been fully reserved. In 2002, Sprint recorded restructuring charges and asset impairments of $154 million representing consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, impairment of a network asset, abandoned network project costs and additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. Also included in 2002 were the expected loss on receivables due to the bankruptcy declaration of WorldCom (now MCI) of $23 million, a net restructuring and asset impairment charge of $76 million, a gain on the sale of Wireless investment in Pegaso Telecomunicaciones, S.A. de C.V. (Pegaso) of $67 million, a gain from the sale of customer contracts of $25 million, the write down of an investment due to declining market value of $241 million, and a tax benefit related to capital losses not previously recognizable of $292 million. 29 Critical Accounting Policies The fundamental objective of financial reporting is to provide useful information that allows a reader to comprehend the business activities of Sprint. To aid in that understanding, management has identified Sprints critical accounting policies. These policies are considered critical because they have the potential to have a material impact on Sprints financial statements, and because they require judgements and estimation due to the uncertainty involved in measuring, at a specific point in time, events which are continuous in nature. Long lived Asset Recovery A significant portion of Sprints total assets are long lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment (PP&E) and definite life intangibles, as well as goodwill and indefinite life intangibles. Changes in technology or in Sprints intended use of these assets, as well as changes in broad economic or industry factors, may cause the estimated period of use or the value of these assets to change. Depreciable Lives of Assets Sprint performs annual internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of depreciable lives for each category of PP&E. These studies utilize models, which take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, and assumptions about technology evolution, and use in certain instances actuarially determined probabilities to calculate remaining life of our asset base. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to the establishment of asset depreciable lives is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about technology evolution and competitive uses of assets, and (2) the impact of changes in these assumptions could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. Managements assumptions about technology and its future development require significant judgement because the timing and impacts of technology advances are difficult to predict, and actual experience has varied from previous assumptions and could continue to do so. If Sprints studies had resulted in a depreciable rate that was 5% higher or lower than those used in the preparation of Sprints consolidated financial statements, recorded depreciation expense would have been impacted by approximately $249 million. Property, Plant and Equipment and Definite Life Intangibles Impairment PP&E and definite life intangibles are evaluated for impairment whenever indicators of impairment exist. Accounting standards require that if an impairment indicator is present, Sprint must assess whether the carrying amount of the asset is unrecoverable by estimating the sum of the future cash flows expected to result from the asset, undiscounted and without interest charges. If the carrying amount is more than the recoverable amount, an impairment charge must be recognized, based on the fair value of the asset. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to asset impairment is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about future revenues and costs of sales over the life of the asset, (2) judgement is involved in determining the occurrence of a triggering event, and (3) the impact that recognizing an impairment would have on our financial position, as well as our results of operations, could be material. Managements assumptions about future revenues require significant judgement because actual revenues have fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so. In estimating future revenues, we use our internal business forecasts. We develop our forecasts based on recent revenue data for existing products and services, planned timing of new products and services, and other industry and economic factors. When indicators are present, Sprint tests for impairment. This resulted in total PP&E impairments of $3.54 billion, $652 million, and $198 million in 2004, 2003, and 2002, respectively. In 2004, Sprint recorded $3.52 billion related to an impairment of the Long distance network assets and $21 million related to the write down of the wholesale Dial IP assets prior to the sale of that business in October, 2004. These impairments represent 54% of Long distances net PP&E and 13% of the consolidated net PP&E at December 31, 2003. In 2003, Sprint recorded $303 million associated with the termination of its Web Hosting business and $349 million associated with the terminated development of a new billing platform and a software development project. These impairments represent two percent of the December 31, 2002 consolidated net PP&E. In 2002, Sprint recorded $156 million for network asset impairments and $42 million for abandoned network projects. These impairments represent less than one percent of the December 31, 2001 consolidated net PP&E. 30 Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangibles Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are reviewed at least annually for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Goodwill is tested by comparing net book value of the reporting unit (identified as Sprints operating segments) to fair value of the reporting unit. Indefinite life intangibles are tested by comparing book value to estimated fair value of the asset. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to goodwill and indefinite life intangibles is a critical accounting estimate because (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about fair values, (2) judgement is involved in determining the occurrence of a triggering event, and (3) the impact of recognizing an impairment could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. Managements assumptions about fair values require significant judgement because broad economic factors, industry factors and technology considerations can result in variable and volatile fair values. Management completed impairment analyses on both goodwill and indefinite life intangibles in the 2004 fourth quarter. These tests were performed internally. As of December 31, 2004, no impairments existed. In the 2003 third quarter, Sprint decided to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy using its BRS spectrum. This decision required an impairment analysis of the asset. A decline in the fair value of BRS drove Long distance to record a pre tax, non cash charge of $1.2 billion, which reduced the carrying value to $300 million. Sprint continues to focus its efforts on a broad range of alternative strategies. Sprint is continuing to invest in the spectrum, is monitoring technology and industry developments, and is involved in efforts to achieve favorable regulatory rulings with respect to this spectrum. Employee Benefit Plan Assumptions Retirement benefits are a significant cost of doing business for Sprint and yet represent obligations that will be settled far in the future. Retirement benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of the future benefit costs over the employees expected tenure with Sprint based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made by Sprint. The accounting requires that management make assumptions regarding such variables as the return on assets, the discount rate and future health care costs. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligation and periodic benefit cost incurred by Sprint. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to retirement benefit accounting is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about discount rates, future health care costs, and future return on assets funding the obligation; and (2) the impact that changes in actual performance versus these estimates would have on the projected benefit obligation reported on our balance sheet and the benefit cost could be material. In determining pension obligations, assumptions are required concerning market performance. Market performance has fluctuated in the recent past and could have continued volatility in the future. In selecting its assumptions, Sprint uses historical experience, as well as objective indices, as benchmarks, and tests the benchmarks against historical industry data on these assumptions provided by an independent actuary. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the reported projected benefit obligation. In contrast, if the discount rate in 2004 used in determining the projected benefit obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $176 million increase in the projected benefit obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a $39 million increase in the benefit costs. Similarly, if the expected return on assets assumption was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $9 million increase in current year benefit costs. This assumption is not used in calculation of the pension projected benefit obligation. In determining post retirement medical and life insurance benefit obligations, assumptions are made concerning the cost of health care. A one percentage point increase in the assumed medical inflation rate would generate an $84 million increase in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a $5 million increase in benefit costs. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the reported accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. In contrast, if the discount rate in 2004 used in determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $13 million increase in the reported year end 2004 obligation and an immaterial impact on benefit costs. Tax Valuation Allowances Sprint is required to estimate the amount of tax payable or refundable for the current year and the deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in its financial statements or tax returns for each taxing jurisdiction in which it operates. This process requires Sprints management to make assessments regarding the timing and probability of the ultimate tax impact. Sprint records valuation allowances on deferred tax assets to reflect the expected realizable future tax benefits. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, the proposed spin off of Local, significant changes in the jurisdictions in which Sprint operates, Sprints inability to generate sufficient future taxable income or unpredicted results from the final 31 determination of each years liability by taxing authorities. These changes can have a significant impact on the financial position of Sprint. Sprint believes that the accounting estimate related to establishing tax valuation allowances is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assessments about the timing of future events, including the probability of expected future taxable income and available tax planning opportunities, and (2) the impact changes in actual performance versus these estimates could have on the realization of tax benefit as reported in our results of operations could be material. Managements assumptions require significant judgement because actual performance has fluctuated in the past and may continue to do so. Sprint currently carries an income tax valuation allowance of $670 million on its books. This amount includes a valuation allowance for the total tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards, subject to utilization restrictions, acquired in connection with certain acquisitions. The remainder of the valuation allowance relates primarily to state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Assumption changes which result in a reduction of expected benefits from realization of state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards by 10% would increase our valuation allowance by $36 million. Revenue Recognition Policies Sprint recognizes operating revenues as services are rendered or as products are delivered to customers in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition. In connection with recording revenue, estimates and assumptions are required in determining the expected conversion of the revenue streams to cash collected. The revenue estimation process requires management to make assumptions based on historical results, future expectations, the economic and competitive environment, changes in the credit worthiness of our customers, and other relevant factors. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projection of cash collected and the periodic revenue stream recognized by Sprint. Sprint believes that the accounting estimates related to the establishment of revenue and receivable reserves and the associated provisions in the results of operations is a critical accounting estimate because: (1) it requires Sprint management to make assumptions about future billing adjustments for disputes with customers, unauthorized usage, future returns on asset sales and future access adjustments for disputes with competitive local exchange carriers and inter exchange carriers, as well as the future economic viability of our customer base; and (2) the impact of changes in actual performance versus these estimates would have on the accounts receivable reported on our balance sheet and the results reported in our statements of operations could be material. In selecting these assumptions, Sprint uses historical trending of write offs, industry norms, regulatory decisions and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions which might impact the collectibility of accounts. If the 2004 revenue reserve estimates were to be increased by 100 basis points (bps), it would represent a reduction of net operating revenues of approximately $11 million for Wireless, less than $1 million for Local and approximately $10 million for Long distance. If the 2004 accounts receivable reserve estimates were to be increased by 100 bps, it would represent an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $15 million for Wireless, $4 million for Local and $10 million for Long distance. Management believes the reserve estimate selected, in each instance, represents its best estimate of future outcomes, but the actual outcomes could differ from the estimate selected. Segmental Results of Operations Wireless Wireless operates a 100% digital PCS wireless network with licenses to provide service to the entire United States population, including Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, using a single frequency band and a single technology. Wireless, together with third party affiliates, operates PCS systems in over 350 metropolitan markets, including the 100 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, and reaches a quarter billion people. Combined with our wholesale partners and Sprint PCS Affiliates, Wireless served 24.7 million subscribers at the end of 2004. Wireless provides nationwide service through a combination of: operating its own digital network in major U.S. metropolitan areas using code division multiple access (CDMA), which is a digital spread spectrum wireless technology that allows a large number of users to 32 access a single frequency band by assigning a code to all voice and data bits, sending a scrambled transmission of the encoded bits over the air and reassembling the voice and data into its original format, affiliating under commercial arrangements with other companies that use CDMA, mainly in and around smaller U.S. metropolitan areas, roaming on other providers analog cellular networks using multi mode and multi band handsets, and roaming on other providers digital networks that use CDMA. Wireless subscribers can use their phones through roaming agreements in countries other than the United States, including areas of: Asia Pacific, including China, Guam, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Thailand and New Zealand, Canada and Mexico, Central and South America, including Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Ecuador, Guatemala, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela, and Most major Caribbean Islands. Sprints third generation (3G) capability allows more efficient utilization of the network when voice calls are made using 3G enabled handsets. It also provides enhanced data services. The service, marketed as Sprint PCS VisionSM, allows consumer and business customers to use their Vision enabled PCS devices to exchange instant messages, exchange personal and corporate e mail, send and receive pictures, play games with full color graphics and polyphonic sounds and browse the Internet wirelessly with speeds up to 144 kbps (with average speeds of 50 to 70 kbps). Sprint is continuing to execute its plans for faster wireless data speeds by deploying Evolution Data Optimized (EV DO) technology across the Sprint Nationwide PCS Network. With average users speed of 300 500 kilobits per second and peak rates of up to 2.4 megabits per second for downloads, EV DO will provide mobile device data speeds up to 10 times faster than on our current network. In addition, this technology is expected to deliver superior application and service performance on EV DO capable handsets and laptops equipped with EV DO enabled Sprint PCS Connection Cards. Sprint is targeting the first commercial roll out of EV DO in the 2005 second quarter and subsequent roll outs throughout 2006. Additional traffic volumes related to EV DO may require future capital expenditures. Wireless supplements its own network through commercial affiliation arrangements with other companies that use CDMA. Under these arrangements, these companies offer wireless services under Sprints brand on CDMA networks built and operated at their own expense. We call these companies Sprint PCS Affiliates. Generally, the Sprint PCS Affiliates use spectrum owned and controlled by Sprint. Sprint has amended its existing agreements with a majority of the Sprint PCS Affiliates to provide for a simplified pricing mechanism, as well as refining and changing various business processes. The amended agreements cover approximately 80% of the subscribers served by all Sprint PCS Affiliates. The agreements provide simplified and predictable long term pricing for fees charged to the Sprint PCS Affiliates for inter area service. In addition, the agreements settled all significant outstanding disputes with these affiliates. One Sprint PCS Affiliate, which has not agreed to amend its existing agreement with us, has filed suit against us. This same affiliate and some other Sprint PCS Affiliates are disputing and refusing to pay amounts owed to Sprint. Reserves have been established that are expected to provide for the ultimate resolution of these disputes. Wireless may incur additional expenses to ensure that service is available to its subscribers in the areas served by the Sprint PCS Affiliates. If any of the Sprint PCS Affiliates cease operations, Wireless may incur roaming charges in areas where service was previously provided by the Sprint PCS Affiliates and costs to meet FCC buildout and renewal requirements, as well as experience lower revenues. Sprint is subject to exclusivity provisions and other restrictions under its arrangements with the Sprint PCS Affiliates. Once the proposed merger is completed, continued compliance with those restrictions may limit the ability to fully integrate the operations of Sprint and Nextel in areas managed by the Sprint PCS Affiliates, and Sprint or Sprint Nextel could incur significant costs to resolve issues related to the proposed merger under these arrangements. We are currently working with Sprint PCS Affiliates to modify our arrangements with them such that the proposed merger of Sprint and Nextel will be mutually beneficial. 33 Wireless also provides wireless services to companies that resell wireless services to their customers on a retail basis under their own brand using the Sprint Nationwide PCS Network. These companies bear the costs of acquisition, billing and customer service. In 2002, Virgin Mobile USA, LLC, a joint venture between Sprint and the Virgin Group, launched services targeting youth and pre pay segments. Sprint also has a multi year, exclusive wholesale agreement with Qwest Communications (Qwest) whereby Qwest wireless subscribers use Sprints national PCS network and have access to Sprint PCS Vision data services. Qwest began adding new subscribers under this agreement in the 2004 first quarter. In the 2004 second quarter, existing Qwest subscribers began transitioning to Sprints Nationwide PCS Network and this transition is expected to be substantively complete by the 2005 first quarter. The wireless industry typically generates a higher number of subscriber additions and handset sales in the fourth quarter of each year compared to the other quarters. This is due to the use of retail distribution, which is impacted by the holiday shopping season; the timing of new products and service introductions; and aggressive marketing and sales promotions. 2004 2003 2002 (millions) Net operating revenues Service $ 12,529 $ 11,217 $ 10,646 Equipment 1,510 1,143 1,213 Wholesale, affiliate and other 608 330 215 Total net operating revenues 14,647 12,690 12,074 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 7,096 6,155 5,783 Selling, general and administrative 3,406 3,085 3,381 Depreciation and amortization 2,563 2,454 2,245 Restructuring and asset impairment 30 362 138 Total operating expenses 13,095 12,056 11,547 Operating income $ 1,552 $ 634 $ 527 Capital expenditures $ 2,559 $ 2,123 $ 2,640 In 2004, Wireless reported a 15% increase in net operating revenues, a $918 million improvement in operating income, and a 12% increase in direct subscribers. In 2005, Sprint expects to continue to grow its wireless subscriber base by enhancing the subscriber experience through simplified offerings, improved accessibility, enhanced network clarity, and quality subscriber care. Competitive pressure on price is expected to continue, but is expected to be partially offset by increased revenues from services that subscribers can elect to add to their base plan, including Sprint PCS Vision services. Sprint is a leader in wireless data, with more than 40% of the direct Wireless base subscribing to data services. We continue to evaluate next generation wireless high speed data network options to ensure we maintain a leadership position, as well as to support our integration strategies. Net Operating Revenues 2004 2003 2002 Direct Subscribers at year end (millions) 17.8 15.9 14.8 Average monthly service revenue per user (ARPU) $ 62 $ 61 $ 62 Wireless had 1.9 million direct net subscriber additions in 2004 including 91,000 subscribers acquired from a Sprint PCS Affiliate. Wireless ended the year with 17.8 million direct subscribers. Wholesale partners added 2.1 million subscribers in 2004, increasing their subscriber base to 3.7 million from 1.6 million in 2003, principally driven by Virgin Mobile USA and Qwest. The Sprint PCS Affiliates added 374,000 subscribers in 2004 ending the period with 3.2 million subscribers. This brings the total number of subscribers served on the Wireless and Sprint PCS Affiliate networks, including direct, Sprint PCS Affiliates and wholesale subscribers, to 24.7 million at 2004 year end. 34 The total number of subscribers at year end 2004 reflects an approximate 90 thousand reduction from the previously disclosed number. This was due to a 67 thousand overstatement of direct subscribers and a 23 thousand overstatement of Sprint PCS Affiliate subscribers. Subscriber counts reflect activated wireless handsets and other devices, excluding those activated for demonstration or testing purposes. As a result of internal analysis, Sprint recently concluded that previously reported subscriber counts had inadvertently included a limited number of devices used for demonstration or testing purposes, and that this error had occurred over several years. Additional process controls have been established to prevent reoccurrence of this situation and, because the amount of the error is not material to any previously disclosed information, this error has been corrected by adjusting the number of year end 2004 subscribers. Wireless had 1.1 million direct net additions in 2003. Wholesale partners added 1.2 million subscribers in 2003, which increased their subscriber base to 1.6 million from 415,000 at the end of 2002, principally driven by Virgin Mobile USA. The Sprint PCS Affiliates added 297,000 subscribers in 2003 ending the period with 2.9 million subscribers, bringing the total number of subscribers served on the Wireless and Sprint PCS Affiliate networks, including direct, affiliate and wholesale subscribers, to 20.4 million at the end of 2003. Subscriber churn, which is calculated on our direct subscriber base, is computed by dividing the direct subscribers who discontinued PCS service by the weighted average direct subscribers for the period. This is an operational measure which is used by most wireless companies as a method of estimating the life of the direct subscriber. Analysts and investors primarily use churn to compare relative value across the wireless industry. In 2004, the subscriber churn rate decreased to 2.6% from 2.7% in 2003. The slight decrease in 2004 was primarily due to improved involuntary churn resulting from improved subscriber payments and collection activity. Subscriber churn rate decreased from 3.3% to 2.7% in 2003. The 2003 improvement was primarily due to a reduction in the involuntary churn rate as Wireless benefited from credit management policies initiated in the 2002 fourth quarter. This improvement was partially offset by a slight increase in voluntary churn due in part to the institution of WLNP in the fourth quarter of 2003. Average monthly service revenue per user (ARPU), calculated on our direct subscriber base, is computed by dividing direct wireless service revenues by weighted average monthly direct wireless subscribers to measure revenue on a per user basis. This is a measure which uses GAAP as the basis for the calculation. ARPU, which is used by most wireless companies, is a method of valuing recurring subscriber revenue and is used by analysts and investors to compare relative value across the wireless industry. Net operating revenues include direct wireless service revenues from the direct subscriber base, revenues from sales of handsets and accessory equipment, and revenues from our wholesale partners and Sprint PCS Affiliates. Service revenues consist of monthly recurring charges, usage charges, and miscellaneous fees such as directory assistance, operator assisted calling, handset insurance and late payment charges. In 2004, Sprint saw increased pricing pressures and lower overage charges from usage based plans, which were more than offset by an increase in the number of subscribers, increased revenues from data services and subscriber elections to add services to their base plans. Average monthly usage in 2004 was 16 hours compared to 13 hours in 2003. At the end of 2004, 43% of the direct Wireless base was subscribing to data services compared to 35% at the end of 2003. Service revenues increased 12% in 2004 mainly reflecting an increase in the number of direct subscribers, increased revenue from data services and subscriber elections to add services to their base plans. These increases were partially offset by lower overage charges from usage based plans. Service revenues increased 5% in 2003 mainly reflecting an increase in the number of subscribers, increased revenues from data services and increased fees. These increases were partially offset by lower overage charges from higher usage service plans. Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories, including new subscribers and upgrades, were approximately 10.3% of net operating revenues in 2004, 9.0% in 2003, and 10.0% in 2002. The 2004 increase was mainly due to higher subscriber additions and higher retail prices, which were partially offset by higher rebates. The 2003 declines were mainly due to higher rebates and lower gross additions. As part of the Wireless marketing plans, handsets, net of rebates, are usually sold at prices below cost. Wholesale, affiliate and other service revenues consist primarily of net revenues retained from Wireless subscribers residing in Sprint PCS Affiliate territories, and revenues from the sale of our wireless services by companies that resell those services to their subscribers on a retail basis. These revenues represented 4.2% of net operating revenues in 2004, 2.6% in 2003, and 1.8% in 2002. The 2004 and 2003 increases mainly reflect the net additions from the wholesale and Sprint PCS Affiliate bases. 35 Cost of Services and Products Costs of services and products mainly include handset and accessory costs, switch and cell site expenses, customer service costs and other network related costs. These costs increased 15% in 2004 and 6% in 2003. The increases were primarily due to network support of a larger subscriber base, higher minutes of use, expanded market coverage and increased handset costs. These increases were somewhat offset by decreases in information technology expense. Handset and equipment costs were 39% of total costs of services and products in each of 2004, 2003 and 2002. Costs of services and products were 48.4% of net operating revenue in 2004, 48.5% in 2003, and 47.9% in 2002. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) expense mainly includes sales, distribution and marketing costs to promote products and services, as well as salary, benefit and other administrative costs. SG&A expense increased 10% in 2004 compared to a decrease of 9% in 2003. The 2004 increase reflects an increase in sales and distribution costs primarily driven by higher gross additions and an increase in the number of direct retail stores. Marketing costs also contributed to the increase as a significant campaign was launched to reposition the Sprint PCS brand. The 2003 decrease was primarily due to a decline in bad debt expense due to an improved credit class mix, leading to lower write offs and higher recovery. This decrease was partially offset by increases in other sales and marketing costs due to more competitive market conditions and expanded direct sales presence and the executive separation agreements. SG&A expense was 23.3% of net operating revenues in 2004, 24.3% in 2003, and 28.0% in 2002. The reserve for bad debt requires managements judgement and is based on historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was 1.4% in 2004, 2.3% in 2003, and 5.1% in 2002. Reserve for bad debt as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 6.8% in 2004, 7.3% in 2003, and 9.4% in 2002. The 2004 improvements mainly reflect sales of previously written off subscriber receivables and reductions in reserves because number portability churn did not occur as anticipated. The 2003 improvements were mainly driven by credit management policies initiated in the 2002 fourth quarter resulting in lower involuntary churn and improved receivables aging. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used both in setting depreciable lives and testing for recoverability. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation expense consists mainly of depreciation of network assets. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 4% in 2004 and 9% in 2003 mainly reflecting depreciation of the network assets placed in service during 2003 and 2004. Depreciation and amortization expense was 17.5% of net operating revenues in 2004, 19.3% in 2003, and 18.6% in 2002. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In 2004, Wireless recorded a $30 million restructuring charge related to severance costs associated with Sprints Organizational Realignment. In 2003, Wireless recorded asset impairments of $349 million primarily related to the termination of development of a new billing platform. Wireless also recorded restructuring charges of $13 million for severance costs associated with Sprints Organizational Realignment, and contractual obligations related to the termination of the development of the billing platform, partially offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring activities. In 2002, Wireless recorded restructuring charges of $96 million related to the consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, as well as other reductions to create a more competitive cost structure by reducing operating expenses. Additionally, Wireless recorded an asset impairment of $42 million representing abandoned network projects. For additional information, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Local Local consists mainly of regulated incumbent local phone companies serving approximately 7.7 million access lines in 18 states. Local provides local voice and data services, including digital subscriber line (DSL), for 36 customers within its franchise territories, access by phone customers and other carriers to the local network, nationwide long distance services to customers located in its franchise territories, sales of telecommunications equipment, and other services within specified calling areas to residential and business customers. Local provides wireless and video services to customers in its franchise territories through agency relationships. 2004 2003 2002 (millions) Net operating revenues Voice $ 4,498 $ 4,654 $ 4,804 Data 833 730 639 Other 690 746 801 Total net operating revenues 6,021 6,130 6,244 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 1,877 1,943 1,942 Selling, general and administrative 1,254 1,220 1,278 Depreciation and amortization 1,084 1,081 1,153 Restructuring and asset impairments 40 24 56 Total operating expenses 4,255 4,268 4,429 Operating income $ 1,766 $ 1,862 $ 1,815 Operating margin 29.3 % 30.4 % 29.1 % Capital expenditures $ 1,042 $ 1,226 $ 1,283 In 2004, Local produced strong growth in broadband data customers through its DSL offerings. This in turn drove strong growth of data revenues. In 2004, Local continued to be impacted by developing competition and product substitution resulting in a decline in access lines and switched access minutes of use. In 2004, Local recorded a $40 million restructuring charge representing severance costs associated with Sprints Organizational Realignment. Local expects a small revenue decline in 2005. Increases in data revenue driven by DSL growth are expected to be offset by revenue decreases driven by continuing declines in access lines. Net Operating Revenues Net operating revenues decreased 2% in both 2004 and 2003. The decrease in both years was due to lower voice revenue and declines in equipment sales somewhat offset by growth in data revenue. Local ended 2004 with 7.7 million switched access lines, a decrease of 2.9% from the prior year. Access lines decreased 2.2% in 2003. The decreases in 2004 and 2003 were principally driven by wireless substitution and losses to competitive local providers. The reduction in access lines is expected to continue although Sprint expects its ongoing rate of line loss to be less than the loss rates experienced by major urban carriers. Voice Revenues Voice revenues, consisting of revenue from local exchange services, long distance revenue and switched access revenue, decreased 3% in both 2004 and 2003 due to the decrease in access lines. Additionally, FCC allowable cost recoveries associated with local number portability and recoveries for the cost of pooling telephone numbers among carriers ceased in 2004. These declines were partially offset by the wireless number portability recovery that began in 2004. The 2003 decline was also impacted by lower long distance minutes of use partially offset by the demand for network based services driven by increases in bundled offerings. Data Revenues Data revenues are mainly derived from DSL, local data transport services, and special access. Data revenues increased 14% in both 2004 and 2003 mainly as a result of strong growth in DSL services. Local ended 2004 with 492,000 DSL lines in service, an increase of 62% compared to year end 2003. DSL lines in service more than doubled in 2003. Other Revenues Other revenues decreased 8% in 2004 and 7% in 2003. These decreases were driven by a decline in equipment sales of 34% in 2004 and 10% in 2003. The decreases in equipment sales were a result of both a planned shift in focus to selling higher margin products and a reduction in customer demand for equipment. 37 Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include costs to operate and maintain the local network and costs of equipment sales. These costs decreased 3% in 2004 and were flat in 2003. In 2004, general expense controls and lower costs associated with equipment sales were partially offset by higher pension costs and $30 million of hurricane related expenses. In 2003, general expense controls and lower costs associated with long distance revenues were offset by higher pension costs. Costs of services and products were 31.2% of net operating revenues in 2004, 31.7% in 2003, and 31.1% in 2002. Selling, General and Administrative Expense SG&A expense increased 3% in 2004 and decreased 5% in 2003. The 2004 increase was primarily driven by higher pension costs and stock based compensation, somewhat offset by general cost controls. The 2003 decrease was driven by general cost controls and lower bad debt expense partially offset by the executive separation agreements and higher pension costs. The reserve for bad debt requires managements judgement and is based on historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues was 1.4% in 2004, 0.9% in 2003, and 2.6% in 2002. Reserve for bad debt expense as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 9.4% in 2004, 8.5% in 2003, and 13.9% in 2002. In 2003, Local experienced continued improvement in its bad debt experience with end user customers as well as recoveries from previously written off accounts, principally MCI. SG&A expense was 20.8% of net operating revenues in 2004, 19.9% in 2003, and 20.5% in 2002. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used both in setting depreciable lives and testing for recoverability. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation and amortization expense was flat in 2004 and decreased 6% in 2003. The 2003 decrease was driven by the implementation of SFAS No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations, which eliminated the accrual for removal cost from the depreciable rate, as well as declines in circuit switching depreciation rates due to a revised schedule for converting from a digital to a packet network. For further information on the implementation of SFAS No. 143, see Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Depreciation and amortization expense was 18.0% of net operating revenues in 2004, 17.6% in 2003, and 18.5% in 2002. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In 2004, Local recorded a $40 million restructuring charge related to severance costs associated with Sprints Organizational Realignment. In 2003, Local recorded restructuring charges of $24 million related to severance costs associated with Sprints Organizational Realignment, offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities. In 2002, Local recorded restructuring charges of $56 million primarily related to the consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, as well as additional steps to reduce overall operating costs. For additional information, see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Long distance Long distance provides a broad suite of communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice, data communications using various protocols such as IP and frame relay and managed network services. Long distance is selling into the cable telephony market through arrangements with cable companies that resell Sprint long distance service and or use Sprint back office systems and network assets in support of their local telephone service provided over cable facilities. 38 Sprint determined that business conditions and events occurring in 2004 and impacting its Long distance operations constituted a triggering event requiring an evaluation of the recoverability of the Long distance long lived assets pursuant to SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Sprint reevaluated its strategy and financial forecasts in the 2004 third quarter resulting in a $3.52 billion pre tax non cash impairment charge of the Long distance long lived assets. For additional information see Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2004 2003 2002 (millions) Net operating revenues Voice $ 4,560 $ 4,999 $ 5,774 Data 1,722 1,853 1,854 Internet 793 973 1,009 Other 252 180 319 Total net operating revenues 7,327 8,005 8,956 Operating expenses Costs of services and products 4,324 4,252 5,018 Selling, general and administrative 1,860 2,199 2,468 Depreciation and amortization 1,071 1,432 1,483 Restructuring and asset impairments 3,661 1,564 194 Total operating expenses 10,916 9,447 9,163 Operating loss $ (3,589 ) $ (1,442 ) $ (207 ) Capital expenditures $ 282 $ 339 $ 736 Long distance continued to face significant challenges in 2004. The 8% decline in net operating revenues was primarily driven by a decline in voice revenues. This, along with the pre tax, noncash Long distance network asset impairment charge of $3.52 billion, resulted in an operating loss for the year. Throughout 2004, Long distance focused on providing solutions, driving network convergence and targeting growth opportunities. In 2004, Long distance achieved a double digit reduction in selling, general and administrative expenses with a minimal increase in costs of services and products. In 2004, Sprint undertook initiatives to expand its offering through cable network operators. Sprint expects revenues to decline in 2005 as Long distance continues to be impacted by intense competitive pressures. These declines are expected to be partially offset by growing contributions from wholesale business. In addition, Sprint expects our transformation to a customer centric organization to allow us to realize our competitive differentiation, and further increase our customers loyalty. Net Operating Revenues Net operating revenues decreased 8% in 2004 and 11% in 2003. Continuing pricing pressure, termination of a large Dial IP contract and the sale of our Dial IP business were the primary reasons for the revenue decrease in 2004. Loss of a major wholesale customer and a large prepaid customer drove a minute volume decline of 3% in 2003. Voice Revenues Voice revenues decreased 9% in 2004 and 13% in 2003. The decreases are the result of a decline in consumer voice revenue resulting from wireless, e mail and instant messaging substitution, aggressive competition from RBOCs for consumer and small business customers and lower business voice pricing. Results in 2003 were also impacted by the loss of a single major wholesale customer. Voice revenues generated from the provision of services to Wireless and Local represented 13% of total voice revenues in 2004 compared to 12% in 2003. Data Revenues Data revenues reflect sales of current generation data services including asynchronous transfer mode (ATM), managed network services, private line, and frame relay services. Data revenues decreased 7% in 2004 after being flat in 2003. In 2004, the decrease in frame relay and private line services was partially offset by an increase in ATM and managed network services. In 2003, increases in frame relay were offset by a decline in both ATM and private line. 39 Internet Revenues Internet revenues decreased 19% in 2004 and 4% in 2003. The decline in 2004 was the result of a decrease in Dial IP and Web Hosting services, partially offset by an increase in dedicated IP. In the 2004 third quarter, a large Dial IP contract expired. In October 2004, Sprint completed the sale of its wholesale Dial IP business for $34 million. These assets were classified as held for sale on September 30, 2004, and an associated pre tax non cash charge of $21 million was included in the 2004 third quarter impairment charge. The 2003 decrease was primarily the result of a decline in Dial IP due to the final contractually scheduled repricing of the America Online, Inc., Dial IP agreement, partially offset by revenues from a fourth quarter partial buyout of a portion of a Dial IP contract. While Sprint made the decision to exit the Web Hosting business, the 2003 period reflects Web Hosting revenue in the 2003 first and second quarters. Other Revenues Other revenues increased 40% in 2004 after decreasing 44% in 2003. The 2004 increase was primarily due to higher equipment sales. The 2003 decrease was primarily due to the sale of our consulting services business, Paranet, in the third quarter of 2002 and declines in miscellaneous equipment sales. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include interconnection costs paid to local phone companies, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by Long distances domestic customers, costs to operate and maintain the long distance networks, and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products increased 2% in 2004 and decreased 15% in 2003. The 2004 increase was primarily attributable to higher call volumes somewhat offset by renegotiated access rate agreements and initiatives to reduce access unit costs. The 2003 decrease was due to volume declines, an improving product mix, initiatives to reduce access unit costs, favorable carrier access settlements and FCC mandated access rate reductions. Total costs of services and products for Long distance were 59.0% of net operating revenues in 2004, 53.1% in 2003, and 56.0% in 2002. Selling, General and Administrative Expense SG&A expense decreased 15% in 2004 and 11% in 2003. The 2004 decline was due to restructuring efforts and general cost controls. The 2003 decline was due to reduced bad debt expense including the MCI accounts receivable settlement, restructuring efforts, and general cost controls partially offset by the costs of the executive separation agreements recorded in the second quarter of 2003. SG&A includes charges for estimated bad debt expense. The reserve for bad debts requires managements judgement and is based on customer specific indicators, as well as historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues was 2.0% in 2004, 1.4% in 2003, and 3.5% in 2002. Reserve for bad debt as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 12.3% in 2004, 11.1% in 2003, and 14.9% in 2002. Total SG&A expense for Long distance was 25.4% of net operating revenues in 2004, 27.5% in 2003, and 27.6% in 2002. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used both in setting depreciable lives and testing for recoverability. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased 25% in 2004 and 3% in 2003. The 2004 decrease was primarily driven by the impairment of Long distances property, plant and equipment, as well as a decreased asset base due to the wind down of the Web Hosting business in 2003. Additionally, in 2004, Sprint extended the depreciable life of certain high capacity transmission equipment from eight years to twelve years due to slower anticipated evolution of technology. This extension in life decreased the 2004 year to date depreciation expense in Long distance by approximately $74 million. The 2003 decrease was due to asset impairments associated with the wind down of the Web Hosting business and lower capital spending. Depreciation and amortization expense was 14.6% of net operating revenues in 2004, 17.9% in 2003, and 16.6% in 2002. 40 In 2005, Long distance expects depreciation and amortization expense to decline by approximately $600 million due to the 2004 impairment of its asset base. Restructuring and Asset Impairments In 2004, Long distance recorded asset impairments of $3.54 billion related to its property, plant and equipment. Long distance also recorded charges of $121 million related to severance costs and termination of facility leases associated with Sprints transformation initiatives and Web Hosting wind down. In 2003, Long distance recorded asset impairments of $1.2 billion related to a decline in the fair value of its BRS spectrum. The decision to wind down the Web Hosting business resulted in a $316 million asset impairment charge, and associated restructuring charges of $60 million related to severance and facility lease terminations. Long distance also recorded restructuring charges related to Sprints Organizational Realignment which were more than offset by the finalization of all 2002 and 2001 restructuring liabilities. In 2002, Long distance recorded asset impairments of $156 million primarily related to the termination of high speed data services. Long distance also recorded restructuring charges of $117 million related to the termination of high speed data services, consolidations in Sprints Network, Information Technology, and Billing and Accounts Receivable organizations, and additional steps to reduce operating costs. These charges were partially offset by a $79 million adjustment to finalize certain 2001 restructuring liabilities. For additional information, see Note 7 of Notes to Financial Statements. Other Other businesses consist primarily of wholesale sales of telecommunications equipment. Net operating revenues were $850 million in 2004, $840 million in 2003, and $863 million in 2002. Non affiliated revenues, which accounted for 40% of revenues in 2004, increased 18% due to increases in capital spending in the telecommunications industry. Operating expenses were flat in 2004 and decreased 2% in 2003. Operating loss was $21 million, $31 million and $24 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. In 2005, Sprint plans to continue to leverage its web enabled capabilities to improve revenues and expand value added services.  Nonoperating Items Interest Expense The effective interest rates in the following table reflect interest expense on long term debt only. Interest costs on short term borrowings and interest costs on deferred compensation plans have been excluded so as not to distort the effective interest rates on long term debt. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on Sprints financing activities. 2004 2003 2002 Effective interest rate on long term debt 6.9 % 7.0 % 6.9 % The effective interest rate includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements. See Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more details regarding interest rate swaps. Sprints effective interest rate on long term debt decreased in 2004 primarily due to fair value interest rate swaps on $1 billion of long term debt that were entered into during the third quarter of 2003. At December 31, 2004, the average floating rate of interest on the swapped debt was 5.0%, while the weighted average coupon on the underlying debt was 7.2%. The effective interest rate increased in 2003 due to the retirement of fixed rate debt with lower interest rates. Discount (Premium) on Early Retirement of Debt Sprint recorded premiums of $60 million and $21 million due to the early retirement of debt in 2004 and 2003. Sprint recorded a discount of $4 million due to the early retirement of debt in 2002. See Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 41 Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consisted of the following: 2004 2003 2002 (millions) Dividend and interest income $ 59 $ 51 $ 31 Equity in net losses of affiliates (39 ) (77 ) (117 ) Amortization of debt costs (34 ) (35 ) (36 ) Royalties 15 13 9 Litigation settlement (15 ) Tracking stock recombination advisory fees (15 ) Other, net 22 (26 ) (152 ) Total $ 8 $ (89 ) $ (265 ) Dividend and interest income for all years reflects dividends received from Sprints investments in equity securities and interest earned on marketable debt securities. Equity in net losses of affiliates in 2004 and 2003 was primarily driven by Sprints investment in Virgin Mobile USA. The lower Equity in losses of affiliates in 2004 was mainly because Sprint had a reduced requirement to recognize Virgin Mobile USA losses using equity method accounting. In 2002, equity in net losses of affiliates was driven by Sprints investments in Virgin Mobile USA, Pegaso, and Call Net. Sprint made an additional investment of $16 million in Call Net in the 2002 second quarter and immediately recognized an equal amount of losses associated with the investment. Sprints investment in Pegaso was sold in 2002. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on Sprints investments. Royalties reflect payments made to Sprint by Call Net equaling 2.5% of Call Net gross revenues from telecommunication services. In the 2003 first quarter, Sprint recorded a $50 million net charge to settle shareholder litigation. This charge was offset by $35 million from insurance settlements related to this action. In the 2004 first quarter, Sprint recorded $15 million in advisory fees relating to the tracking stock recombination. Gains on sales of other assets in 2002 were driven by the sale of Sprints investment in Pegaso, certain customer contracts and stock received during a companys demutualization. Income Taxes Sprints consolidated effective tax rates were 36.9% in 2004, 42.1% in 2003, and (12.5)% in 2002. See Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information about the differences that caused the effective income tax rates to vary from the statutory federal rate for income taxes related to continuing operations. Discontinued Operations, Net In 2002, Sprint reached a definitive agreement to sell its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley for $2.23 billion in cash. The sale closed on January 3, 2003. The pretax gain recognized in 2003 was $2.14 billion and $1.32 billion after tax. Financial Condition  Sprints consolidated assets of $41.3 billion reflect a decrease of $1.4 billion in 2004. Cash and equivalents increased $2.1 billion as cash provided by operations and proceeds from the equity unit forward purchase contracts exceeded capital expenditures, debt payments and dividend payments. Accounts receivable, net, increased $231 million due to a higher Wireless subscriber base. The current deferred tax asset increased by $1.0 billion to reflect the expected utilization of NOL carryforwards in 2005. Net property, plant and equipment decreased $4.5 billion due to the $3.5 billion long distance network asset impairment, as well as depreciation expense that exceeded capital expenditures by $733 million. Other non current assets decreased by $266 million primarily due to decreases in investments in debt and equity securities and Sprints investment in Virgin Mobile USA. 42 The Sprint debt to total capital ratio was 55.5% at year end 2004 versus 58.9% at year end 2003. This improvement at year end 2004 primarily reflects the conversion of the equity unit notes and additional debt reductions, partially offset by the 2004 net loss and increased dividends.  Liquidity and Capital Resources Sprint exercises discretion regarding the liquidity and capital resource needs of its business segments. This includes the ability to prioritize the use of capital and debt capacity, to determine cash management policies and to make decisions regarding the timing and amount of capital expenditures. Operating Activities Sprints operating cash flows increased $110 million in 2004 and $337 million in 2003. The 2004 growth was driven by higher Wireless revenues, various company wide cost containment initiatives and lower interest costs somewhat offset by declining wireline revenues and higher consolidated working capital requirements. The 2003 increase was mainly due to growth in Wireless, partially offset by higher working capital requirements. Investing Activities Sprints cash flows used by investing activities totaled $3.8 billion in 2004 compared to $4.0 billion in 2003 and $4.6 billion in 2002. Capital expenditures account for the majority of Sprints investing activities. Wireless capital expenditures were incurred mainly to maintain and enhance network reliability and upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services including EV DO. Local incurred capital expenditures to accommodate voice grade equivalent growth, expand capabilities for providing enhanced services, convert our network from circuit to packet switching, continue the build out of high speed DSL services, meet regulatory requirements, and replace network and support assets. Long distance capital expenditures were incurred mainly to maintain network reliability and upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services. The overall increase in capital expenditures in 2004 was driven by higher Wireless spending, somewhat offset by Local and Long distance spending reductions. The overall decline in capital expenditures in 2003 was driven by spending reductions across all divisions. Investing activities also include contributions of $20 million and $32 million to Virgin Mobile USA in 2004 and 2003, respectively, and proceeds of $116 million due to sales and dissolutions of investments in 2002. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on investments. Other investing activities include proceeds from sales of other assets totaling $77 million in 2004, $101 million in 2003, and $138 million in 2002. In 2004, these proceeds were from the sale of Dial IP assets, EarthLink shares and certain network and administrative assets. In 2003, proceeds were from the sale of EarthLink shares and certain network and administrative assets. In 2002, proceeds were from the sale of certain customer contracts, investment securities and other administrative assets. In 2004, Sprint acquired a portion of Horizon Cellulars subscriber base for $35 million. The majority of this purchase is classified as an intangible asset, amortized over a three year period, and reflected as Other, net under investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Financing Activities Sprints cash flows used by financing activities totaled $680 million in 2004, $3.3 billion in 2003 and $1.0 billion in 2002. In 2004, financing activities included $1.9 billion of proceeds from the issuance of common stock mainly from the settlement of equity unit forward purchase contracts. Financing activities also included a $1.9 billion reduction in debt in 2004 compared with a net reduction of $2.9 billion in 2003 and $642 million in 2002. The debt reduction in 2004 was due to the prepayment of senior notes and a portion of the equity unit notes, as well as payment of scheduled maturities of senior notes. The debt reduction in 2003 was due to the tender for the 2003 and 2004 senior notes, the prepayment of borrowings under the Long distance accounts receivable securitization facility and the payment of scheduled maturities of senior notes. Sprint paid cash dividends of $670 million in 2004, $457 million in 2003 and $454 million in 2002. The 2004 dividend increase compared to 2003 and 2002 was due primarily to additional shares of FON common stock resulting from the conversion of PCS common stock in the April tracking stock recombination. 43 Capital Requirements Sprints 2005 investing activities, mainly consisting of capital expenditures, are expected to total approximately $4.0 to $4.2 billion. These expenditures are targeted primarily towards increased network capacity and coverage. They are expected to also include investments for growth in demand for enterprise services, broadband initiatives in Wireless and Local and the phased transition from circuit to packet switching in Local. Sprint continues to review capital expenditure requirements closely and will adjust spending and capital investment in concert with customer demand. Dividend payments are expected to approximate $750 million in 2005. Liquidity In the past, Sprint has used the long term bond market as well as other financial markets to fund its needs. As a result of its improved liquidity position, Sprint has not recently accessed the capital markets and does not currently expect to do so in 2005 to fund either capital expenditures or operating requirements. In June 2004, Sprint entered into a new revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The $1.0 billion facility is unsecured, with no springing liens, and is structured as a 364 day credit line with a subsequent one year, $1.0 billion term out option. Sprint does not intend to draw against this facility. Sprint had letters of credit serving as a backup to various obligations of approximately $123 million at year end 2004. Sprint has a Wireless accounts receivable asset securitization facility that provides Sprint with up to $500 million of additional liquidity. The facility, which expires in June 2005, does not include any ratings triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facility in the event of a credit rating downgrade. The maximum amount of funding available is based on numerous factors and fluctuates each month. Sprint has not drawn against the facility and slightly more than $332 million was available as of year end 2004. Sprint also has a Long distance accounts receivable asset securitization facility that provides Sprint with up to $700 million of additional liquidity. The facility, which expires in August 2005, does not include any ratings triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facility in the event of a credit rating downgrade. The maximum amount of funding available is based on numerous factors and fluctuates each month. In February 2003, Sprint prepaid all outstanding borrowings under this facility. As of December 31, 2004, Sprint had more than $380 million total funding available under the facility. The undrawn loan facilities described above have interest rates equal to LIBOR or Prime Rate plus a spread that varies depending on Sprints credit ratings. Debt maturities, including capital lease obligations, during 2005 total $1.3 billion. Sprints $4.6 billion cash balance at December 31, 2004, and expected 2005 cash flow from operations should be more than adequate to fund these requirements. Any borrowings Sprint may incur are ultimately limited by certain debt covenants. At December 31, 2004, Sprints most restrictive debt covenant would allow an additional $10.7 billion of debt. Sprint is currently in compliance with all debt covenants associated with its borrowings. In May 2004, Sprint repurchased $750 million of senior notes related to the equity units. Sprint repurchased $516 million of its senior notes in August 2004 and another $95 million of senior notes in November 2004. Sprint completed its tender offers to repurchase senior notes in March 2003 in the amount of $1.1 billion and repaid, before scheduled maturities, $118 million of debt primarily consisting of Locals first mortgage bonds in the 2003 third quarter. In September 2003, Sprint repaid the $300 million Export Development Canada loan. Sprint continually evaluates various factors and, as a result, may repurchase additional debt in the future. In January 2003, Sprint closed on the $2.23 billion cash sale of its directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at BBB. On December 15, 2004, Fitch placed Sprints rating on Rating Watch Positive. Standard and Poors Corporate Ratings currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at BBB . On October 8, 2004, Standard and Poors placed Sprints rating on CreditWatch with positive implications. Moodys Investors Service currently rates Sprints long term senior unsecured debt at Baa3 and on December 15, 2004, changed the outlook to Developing. 44 Sprints ability to fund its capital needs is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the bank, term debt and equity markets. Given the volatility in the markets, Sprint continues to monitor the markets closely and to take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable capital structure cost. Sprint currently plans to access the markets only for extension, replacement or renewal of current credit arrangements. As of December 31, 2004, Sprints contractual obligations are summarized below and are fully disclosed in Notes 1, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Payments Due by Period Total Lessthan 1year 1 3years 4 5years After 5years (millions) Notes, bonds, debentures and other debt instruments $ 16,989 $ 1,204 $ 3,264 $ 1,954 $ 10,567 Capital lease obligations 215 84 119 12 Estimated future interest payments 14,601 1,175 2,094 1,780 9,552 Redeemable preferred stock 247 247 Estimated dividends on redeemable preferred stock 26 5 15 6 Operating leases 11,171 808 1,367 1,169 7,827 Unconditional purchase obligations 1,413 1,220 174 7 12 Total contractual obligations $ 44,662 $ 4,496 $ 7,033 $ 5,175 $ 27,958 Unconditional Purchase Obligations Sprint has minimum purchase commitments with various vendors through 2009. Outstanding commitments at year end 2004 were approximately $1.4 billion. The outstanding commitments represent non cancelable commitments to purchase goods and services, and consist primarily of network equipment and maintenance, access commitments, advertising and marketing, information technology services and customer support provided by third parties, handset purchases and other expenses related to normal business operations. Expected pension contributions are disclosed in Note 14 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and have not been included in unconditional purchase obligations. Off Balance Sheet Financing Sprint does not participate in, or secure, financings for any unconsolidated, special purpose entities. Sprint does have bankruptcy remote entities which are included in Sprints Consolidated Financial Statements.  Regulatory Developments See Legislative and Regulatory Developments in Part I of this filing. Financial Strategies  General Risk Management Policies Sprint selectively enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate changes on its debt. Sprint also enters into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Sprint seeks to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, the selection of only the most creditworthy counterparties, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. Sprint also controls exposure to market risk by regularly monitoring changes in foreign exchange and interest rate positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits. Sprints derivative transactions are used principally for hedging purposes. The Board has authorized Sprint to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with Sprints risk management policies. 45 Interest Rate Risk Management Fair Value Hedges Sprint enters into interest rate swap agreements to manage exposure to interest rate movements and achieve an optimal mixture of floating and fixed rate debt while minimizing liquidity risk. The interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively convert Sprints fixed rate debt to a floating rate by receiving fixed rate amounts in exchange for floating rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. During 2003, Sprint entered into interest rate swap agreements, which were designated as fair value hedges. Cash Flow Hedges Sprint enters into interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the impact of interest rate movements on future interest expense by effectively converting a portion of its floating rate debt to a fixed rate. As of December 31, 2004, Sprint had no outstanding interest rate cash flow hedges. Other Derivatives In certain commercial transactions, Sprint is granted warrants to purchase the securities of other companies at fixed rates. These warrants are supplemental to the terms of the commercial transaction and are not designated as hedging instruments. During 2002 and 2003, Sprint entered into variable prepaid forward contracts to monetize equity securities held as available for sale. The derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the variability in expected cash flows related to the forecasted sale of the underlying equity securities. In the 2004 fourth quarter certain of the prepaid forward contracts settled. The remaining contracts will settle in 2005. Foreign Exchange Risk Management Sprints foreign exchange risk management program focuses on reducing transaction exposure to optimize consolidated cash flow. Sprints primary transaction exposure results from payments made to and received from overseas telecommunications companies for completing international calls made by Sprints domestic customers and from the operation of its international subsidiaries. These international operations were not material to the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows at year end 2004. Sprint has not entered into any significant foreign currency forward contracts or other derivative instruments to reduce the effects of adverse fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. As a result, Sprint was not subject to material foreign exchange risk.  Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In March 2004, the EITF of the Financial Accounting Standards Board reached a consensus on EITF No. 03 6, Participating Securities and the Two Class Method under SFAS No. 128, Earnings Per Share (EITF No. 03 6). This guidance requires that the rights of securities to participate in the earnings of an enterprise must be reflected in the reporting of earnings per share. Sprints equity unit purchase contracts met the participating security qualifications outlined in the guidance, because the purchase contracts included a provision permitting the equity unit holders to benefit from or participate in any dividends declared on the common stock during the contract period. Sprint adopted EITF No. 03 6 in the 2004 second quarter. Prior to April 23, 2004, the equity unit forward purchase contracts were tied only to the PCS common stock which had no earnings upon which to declare dividends. Upon recombination and until settlement in August 2004, the equity unit purchase contracts participated in the earnings of FON common stock. The proportionate share of earnings attributable to these securities was $9 million in the year to date period. This attribution was reflected as Earnings allocated to participating securities on the face of the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Sprint has no outstanding participating securities at December 31, 2004. In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment. This statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, through the use of fair value based methods of recognizing cost. This statement is effective for Sprint as of July 1, 2005. 46 Sprint voluntarily adopted fair value accounting for share based payments effective January 1, 2003, under SFAS No. 123 as amended by SFAS No. 148, using the prospective method. Upon adoption Sprint began expensing the fair value of stock based compensation for all grants, modifications or settlements made on or after January 1, 2003. Further, in connection with the tracking stock recombination, as required by SFAS No. 123, Sprint accounted for the conversion of PCS stock options to FON stock options as a modification and accordingly applied stock option expensing to FON stock options resulting from the conversion of PCS stock options granted before January 1, 2003. The revised standard will require Sprint to begin to recognize compensation cost for unvested FON stock options granted before January 1, 2003, which are outstanding as of July 1, 2005. This requirement to recognize expense on additional unvested grants is not expected to be significant to Sprint. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Sprint is susceptible to certain risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The risk inherent in Sprints market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in those factors. Sprint does not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. Interest Rate Risk The communications industry is a capital intensive, technology driven business. Sprint is subject to interest rate risk primarily associated with its borrowings. Sprint selectively enters into interest rate swap and cap agreements to manage its exposure to interest rate changes on its debt. Approximately 93% of Sprints debt at December 31, 2004 was fixed rate debt excluding interest rate swaps. While changes in interest rates impact the fair value of this debt, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows because Sprint intends to hold these obligations to maturity unless market and other conditions are favorable. As of December 31, 2004, Sprint held fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1 billion. These swaps were entered into as hedges of the fair value of a portion of our senior notes. These interest rate swaps have maturities ranging from 2008 to 2012. On a semiannual basis, Sprint pays a floating rate of interest equal to the six month LIBOR plus a fixed spread and receives an average interest rate equal to the coupon rates stated on the underlying senior notes. On December 31, 2004, the rate Sprint would pay averaged 5.0% and the rate Sprint would receive was 7.2%. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the prevailing forward yield curve, the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the underlying senior notes would change by $46 million. These interest rate swaps met all the requirements for perfect effectiveness under derivative accounting rules as all of the critical terms of the swaps perfectly matched the corresponding terms of the hedged debt; therefore, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows for any fair value fluctuations. Sprint performs interest rate sensitivity analyses on its variable rate debt including interest rate swaps. These analyses indicate that a one percentage point change in interest rates would have an annual pre tax impact of $18 million on the statements of operations and cash flows at December 31, 2004. While Sprints variable rate debt may impact earnings and cash flows as interest rates change, it is not subject to changes in fair values. Sprint also performs a sensitivity analysis on the fair market value of its outstanding debt. A 10% decline in market interest rates would cause a $579 million increase in fair market value of its debt to $20.1 billion. This analysis includes the hedged debt. Foreign Currency Risk Sprint also enters into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Sprint uses foreign currency derivatives to hedge its foreign currency exposure related to settlement of international telecommunications access charges and the operation of its international subsidiaries. The dollar equivalent of Sprints net foreign currency payables from international settlements was $55 million and net foreign currency receivables from international operations was $26 million at December 31, 2004. The potential immediate pre tax loss to Sprint that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates based on these positions would be approximately $3 million. 47 
 
