Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements We include certain estimates, projections and other forward looking statements in this annual report and in our quarterly and current reports, and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward looking statements. These statements reflect managements judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. With respect to these forward looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment. Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: the uncertainties related to the benefits of the Sprint Nextel merger, including anticipated synergies and cost savings and the timing thereof; the uncertainties related to, and the impact of, the contemplated spin off of Embarq; the effects of vigorous competition and the overall demand for our service offerings in the markets in which we operate and the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on our business; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new markets; the impact of potential adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by ratings agencies; the ability of our Wireless segment to continue to grow and improve profitability; the ability of our Local and Long Distance segments to achieve expected revenues; the effects of mergers and consolidations in the telecommunications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the telecommunications industry; the uncertainties related to our investments in networks, systems and other businesses; the uncertainties related to the implementation of our business strategies; unexpected results of litigation filed against us; a significant adverse change in Motorolas ability or willingness to provide handsets and related equipment and software applications or to develop new technologies or features for our iDEN network; the impact of adverse network performance, including any performance issues resulting from the reconfiguration of the 800 MHz band of our iDEN network contemplated by the Report and Order; the costs of compliance with regulatory mandates, particularly requirements related to the FCCs Report and Order and deployment of E911 services on the iDEN network; equipment failure, natural disasters, terrorist acts, or other breaches of network or information technology security; 38 inability of third parties to perform to our requirements under agreements related to business operations; one or more of the markets in which we compete being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes or other external factors over which we have no control; and other risks referenced in this annual report on Form 10 K and from time to time in other filings of ours with the SEC including in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. The words estimate, project, forecast, intend, expect, believe, target, providing guidance and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are found throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report, including unforeseen events. Overview We are a global communications company offering a comprehensive suite of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of our targeted customer groups: individuals and business and government customers. Although our operations are divided into three lines of business, wireless, long distance and local, we have organized our sales and distribution efforts to focus on the needs of two distinct customer types individuals, and businesses and government agencies, which enable us to create customer focused communications solutions that can incorporate any of our wireless and wireline services. We are one of the three largest wireless companies in the United States based on the number of wireless subscribers. We own extensive wireless networks and a global long distance, Tier 1 Internet backbone. We also provide regulated local exchange telephone services to approximately 7.4 million access lines in our local service territories in 18 states. Nextel Merger and Contemplated Local Spin off On August 12, 2005, a subsidiary of our company merged with Nextel. In connection with the Nextel merger, we changed our name to Sprint Nextel Corporation. The aggregate consideration paid for the merger was approximately $37.8 billion. At the time that we announced the merger with Nextel, we also announced that we intend to spin off our local communications business to our shareholders on a tax free basis. The business being spun off, which is the business reported as the Local segment in our financial statements, will be known as Embarq Corporation, and we refer to this business as Embarq. To mitigate the risk that the stock we issued in the Sprint Nextel merger would preclude the tax free treatment of the spin off of Embarq, and to ensure that Sprint was treated as the acquiring entity for accounting purposes, the merger agreement provided for an allocation of cash and shares of our common stock, determined as of the date of the merger, that would result in the original Sprint shareholders maintaining at least 50.1% of the outstanding voting power upon closing of the merger. Pursuant to this allocation, Nextel common shareholders received $969 million in cash and 1.452 billion shares of our voting and non voting common stock in the aggregate, or $0.84629198 and 1.26750218 shares of our stock in exchange for each then outstanding share of Nextel stock. It is anticipated that the common stock of Embarq will trade on the NYSE and that the spin off will be completed in the second quarter 2006. We merged with Nextel to secure a number of potential strategic and financial benefits including, but not limited to, the following: the combination of extensive network and spectrum assets, which enables us to offer consumers, businesses and government agencies a wide array of broadband wireless and integrated communications services; 39 the combination of Nextels strength in business and government wireless services with our position in consumer wireless and data services, including services supported by our global IP network, which enables us to serve a broader customer base; the size and scale of the combined company, which is comparable to that of our two largest competitors, is expected to enable more operating efficiencies than either company could achieve on its own; and the ability to position us strategically in the fastest growing areas of the communications industry. We expect to recognize significant synergies associated with this merger, which include: revenue and subscriber synergies primarily arising out of cross selling opportunities and the accelerated deployment of new features and services; reduced capital spending due to the elimination of the need to build a data overlay network as had been planned by Nextel, reduced construction costs, expected volume discounts and benefits of increased purchasing capacity and reduced and consolidated facilities and back office functions; reduced network operating costs primarily arising out of co location of cell sites, process efficiencies and migration of Nextel backhaul and other telecommunications traffic to our long distance network; reduced selling, general and administrative expenses primarily arising out of consolidation of customer care, billing and other IT functions, increased scale and volume discounts and reduced combined sales and marketing costs and general administrative expenses; and marketing, sales and fulfillment savings as a result of headcount savings, the rationalization of distribution channels, greater volume discounts on devices and other scale benefits. We began to realize some synergies in 2005, and expect to realize additional synergies over a number of years. However, we believe that our operating results for at least the next several quarters will be negatively impacted by costs that will be incurred to achieve these synergies. Such costs are generally not expected to be recurring in nature, and will include costs associated with the spin off of Embarq, costs associated with integrating back office systems, severance costs associated with the termination of the employment of certain employees, and lease and other contract termination costs. In addition, our results will be negatively impacted by significant additional non cash amortization charges associated primarily with the value of the customer relationships that were acquired in the merger, as well as additional non cash charges for stock based compensation associated with the Nextel employees. The ability to achieve these synergies and the timing in which the benefits can be realized will depend in large part on the ability to integrate our networks, business operations, back office functions and other support systems and infrastructure. Business We offer a comprehensive suite of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of our two targeted customer groups: individuals, and businesses and government agencies. We conduct our operations through three segments referred to as: Wireless, Long Distance and Local. We, together with the PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital and wireless services in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and provide wireless coverage to a total domestic population of about 277 million. The PCS Affiliates, through commercial arrangements with us, provide wireless services under the Sprint brand name in certain mid sized and tertiary U.S. markets on wireless networks built and operated at their expense, in most instances using spectrum licensed to, and controlled by, us. Nextel Partners provides digital wireless communications services under the Nextel brand name in certain mid sized and tertiary U.S. markets on 40 wireless networks built and operated at its expense. During 2005 and the first quarter 2006, we acquired five PCS Affiliates and we expect to acquire Nextel Partners in the second quarter 2006. We also are one of the nations largest providers of long distance services and are one of the largest carriers of Internet traffic. In addition, we provide regulated local exchange telephone services to approximately 7.4 million access lines in our local service territories in 18 states. We believe the communications industry has been and will continue to be highly competitive on the basis of price, the types of services offered and quality of service. Although competitive pricing is often an important factor in potential customers purchase decisions, we believe that our targeted customer base of individuals and businesses and government agencies will also base their purchase decisions on quality of service and the availability of differentiated features and services. We operate in an industry that has been and continues to be subject to consolidation and dynamic change. To maintain our operating margins in an environment of intense competition that could put pressure on customer pricing, we continually seek ways to create or improve capital and operating efficiencies in our business. Consequently, we routinely reassess our business strategies and their implications on our operations and these assessments may continue to impact the future valuation of our long lived assets. As part of our overall business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities to expand and complement our business and may at any time be discussing or negotiating a transaction that, if consummated, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and or results of operations. The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed spectrum that is essential to our business. The FCC and state PUCs also regulate the provision of telecommunications services. Future changes in regulations or legislation related to spectrum licensing or other matters related to our business could impose significant additional costs on us either in the form of direct out of pocket costs or additional compliance obligations. Statements contained in this annual report relating to business strategies, operating plans, planned expenditures, expected capital requirements and other forward looking statements regarding our business generally do not take into account the contemplated spin off of Embarq. Management Overview Wireless Through our Wireless segment, we, together with the remaining PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and provide wireless coverage in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 125 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, to more than 277 million people. Including subscribers who purchase services from the PCS Affiliates, Nextel Partners and our MVNOs, we served more than 49.6 million subscribers at the end of 2005. We offer a wide array of wireless mobile telephone and wireless data transmission services on networks that utilize CDMA and iDEN technology. Our strategy is to utilize state of the art technology to provide differentiated wireless services and applications in order to acquire and retain high quality wireless subscribers. To enable us to offer innovative applications and services, we are deploying high speed EV DO technology across our CDMA network. The services supported by this technology, marketed as PowerVision, give consumer and business subscribers with EV DO enabled devices access to numerous sophisticated data messaging, imaging, entertainment and location based applications. On our iDEN network, we continue to develop features and services that are designed to meet the needs of business and government customers with a particular focus on services that build upon our unique walkie talkie features. We also seek to realize operating efficiencies in our business, largely from merger related synergies, and optimize the performance of our network while minimizing costs. 41 We offer wireless mobile telephone and data transmission services and features in a variety of pricing plans, including prepaid service plans. Excluding prepaid service plans, we offer these services on a contract basis, typically for one or two year periods, with services billed on a monthly basis according to the applicable pricing plan. We market our prepaid services under the Boost Mobile brand, as a means to directly target the youth and prepaid wireless service markets. We also offer wholesale services to MVNOs, which purchase wireless services from us at wholesale rates and resell the services to their customers under their own brand names. These companies bear the costs of acquisition, billing and customer service. We also recently entered into a joint venture with several cable companies to develop converged next generation products for consumers designed to combine many of cables core products and interactive features with wireless technology to deliver a broad range of services, including video, wireless voice and data services, high speed Internet and cable phone service. Our Wireless segment generates revenues from the provision of wireless services, the sale of wireless equipment and the provision of wholesale and other services. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate service revenues is primarily a function of: the number of subscribers that we serve, which in turn is a function of our ability to acquire new and retain existing subscribers; and the revenue generated by each subscriber, which in turn is a function of the types and amount of services utilized by each subscriber. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate equipment revenues is primarily a function of the number of new and existing subscribers who purchase handsets and other accessories. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate wholesale revenues is primarily a function of the number and type of MVNOs that resell our wireless service and the number of subscribers to whom they provide service. We increasingly must attract a greater proportion of our new customers from our competitors existing customer bases rather than from first time purchasers of wireless services. The higher market penetration also means that customers purchasing wireless services for the first time, on average, have a lower credit rating than existing wireless users, which generally results in both a higher churn rate due to involuntary churn and in a higher bad debt expense. Although many of the costs relating to the operation of our wireless networks are fixed in the short term, other costs, such as interconnection fees, fluctuate based on the utilization of the networks. Sales and marketing expenses are largely dependent on the number of subscriber additions and the nature and extent of our marketing and promotional activities. General and administrative expenses consist of corporate overhead costs and other costs to operate the Wireless segment. In February 2005, Nextel accepted the terms and conditions of the Report and Order of the FCC, which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band. Under the terms of the Report and Order, prior to the August 12, 2005 merger date, Nextel surrendered certain spectrum rights and received certain other spectrum rights, and undertook to pay the costs incurred by Nextel and third parties in connection with the reconfiguration plan, which is required to be completed within a 36 month period, subject to certain exceptions particularly with respect to markets that border Mexico and Canada. If, as a result of events within our control, we fail to complete the reconfiguration plan within the 36 month period, we could be subject to actions, which could be material. Based on the FCCs determination of the values of the spectrum rights received and surrendered by Nextel, the minimum obligation to be incurred under the Report and Order is $2.8 billion. The Report and Order also provides that qualifying costs we incur as part of the reconfiguration plan, including costs to reconfigure our own infrastructure and spectrum positions, can be used to offset the minimum obligation of $2.8 billion; however, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed that amount. 42 In addition, a financial reconciliation is required to be completed in 2008 at the end of the reconfiguration implementation, at which time we are required to make a payment to the U.S. Department of the Treasury to the extent that the value of the spectrum rights received exceeds the total of (i) the value of spectrum rights that are surrendered and (ii) the qualifying costs referred to above. As required under the terms of the Report and Order, we have delivered a $2.5 billion letter of credit to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum. Although the Report and Order provides for periodic reductions in the amount of the letter of credit, no reductions had been made at December 31, 2005. Long Distance Through our Long Distance segment, we provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice, data communications using various protocols such as next generation MPLS technologies, as well as IP, ATM and frame relay, and managed network services. We also provide services to the cable companies that resell our long distance service and or use our back office systems and network assets in support of their telephone service provided over cable facilities. We are one of the nations largest providers of long distance services and operate all digital long distance and Tier 1 IP networks. For several years, our long distance voice services have experienced an industry wide trend of lower revenue from lower prices and competition from other wireline and wireless communications companies, as well as cable companies and Internet service providers. In addition to increased emphasis on selling IP services, we are converting existing customers from ATM and frame relay to more advanced IP technologies through a data simplification initiative. Over time, this will result in decreasing revenue from frame relay and ATM service offset by increases in IP and other data revenues. Local Our Local segment consists mainly of regulated incumbent local phone companies serving approximately 7.4 million access lines in our local service territories in 18 states. We provide local and long distance voice and data services, including DSL services to customers in these service areas. We also operate a wholesale telecommunications product distribution business. For several years, we have experienced declines in the number of access lines that we serve in our local service territories, as a result of competition from cable operators, which provide high speed Internet services that can be used as a platform to support VoIP and wireless providers, as customers completely forego the use of traditional wireline phone service and instead rely solely on wireless service. The strategy of our Local segment to offset the decline in access lines is to sell a bundled package of products and services to meet the needs of our consumers and business and wholesale customers within our local service territories. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We consider the following accounting policies and estimates to be the most important to our financial position and results of operations, either because of the significance of the financial statement item or because they require the exercise of significant judgment and or use of significant estimates. While management believes that the estimates used are reasonable, actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Policies Operating revenues primarily consist of wireless service revenues, revenues generated from handset and accessory sales and revenues from arrangements with our wholesale operators and PCS Affiliates, as well as long distance and local voice, data and Internet revenues. 43 Revenues consist of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges, equipment charges, miscellaneous fees such as activation fees, directory assistance, operator assisted calling, equipment protection and late payment charges, and certain regulatory fees. We recognize operating revenues as services are rendered or as products are delivered to customers in accordance with Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, Revenue Recognition, and Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. We recognize revenue for access charges and other services charged at fixed amounts ratably over the service period, net of credits and adjustments for service discounts, billing disputes and fraud or unauthorized usage. We recognize excess usage and long distance revenue at contractual rates per minute as minutes are used. As a result of the cutoff times of our multiple billing cycles each month, we are required to estimate the amount of subscriber revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. These estimates are based primarily on rate plans in effect and our historical usage and billing patterns, and represented less than 10% of our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2005. Certain of our bundled products and services, primarily plans for our Wireless segment, are considered to be revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Total consideration received in these arrangements is allocated and measured using units of accounting within the arrangement based on relative fair values. We classify revenue from sales of handsets as equipment revenue. We recognize revenue from handset sales when title to the handset passes to the dealer or end user customer. Wireless offerings include wireless phones and service contracts sold together in our company operated stores. The activation fee revenue associated with these direct sales channels is recognized at the time the related wireless phone is sold, and is classified as equipment sales. Wireless activation fees earned prior to the 2003 adoption of EITF Issue No. 00 21 are being deferred and amortized over the estimated average life of the end user customer. Certain activation fees associated with unbundled sales in our wireless segment are deferred and amortized over the estimated average life of the end user customer. We defer the recognition of certain installation fees related to services provided by our Local segment and recognize the revenue over the estimated average life of the customer. We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable sufficient to cover probable and reasonably estimable losses. Because of the number of accounts that we have, it is not practical to review the collectibility of each account individually when we determine the amount of our allowance for doubtful accounts each period. Our estimate of the allowance for doubtful accounts considers a number of factors, including collection experience, current economic trends, estimates of forecasted write offs, aging of the accounts receivable portfolios, industry norms, regulatory decisions, and other factors. If our allowance for doubtful accounts estimate at December 31, 2005 were to change by ten percent, it would represent a change in bad debt expense of $20 million for the Wireless segment and $6 million each for the Long Distance and Local segments. The accounting estimates related to the recognition of revenue and the allowance for doubtful accounts in the results of operations require us to make assumptions about future billing adjustments for disputes with customers, unauthorized usage, future returns on asset sales and future access adjustments for disputes with CLECs and inter exchange carriers, as well as the future economic viability of our customer base. Management believes the allowance amounts recorded, in each instance, represents its best estimate of future outcomes, but the actual outcomes could differ from the estimate selected, and the impact that changes in actual performance versus these amounts recorded would have on the accounts receivable reported on the balance sheet and the results reported in the statements of operations could be material to our financial condition. 44 Valuation and Recoverability of Long lived Assets A significant portion of our total assets are long lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment and definite life intangibles. Changes in technology or in our intended use of these assets, as well as changes in economic or industry factors, may cause the estimated period of use or the value of these assets to change. Long lived assets consisting of property, plant and equipment represented $31 billion of our $103 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2005. We generally calculate depreciation on these assets using the straight line method based on estimated economic useful lives as follows: Long lived Assets Estimated Useful Life Buildings and improvements 3 to 31 years Network equipment and software 3 to 31 years Non network internal use software, office equipment and other 3 to 30 years The accounting estimate related to the establishment of depreciable lives requires us to make assumptions about technology evolution and competitive uses of assets. Our assumptions about technology and its future development require significant judgment because the timing and impacts of technology advances are difficult to predict, and actual experience has varied from previous assumptions and could do so in the future. The impact of changes in these assumptions could be material to our financial position, as well as our results of operations. We continue to assess the estimated useful life of the iDEN network assets following our merger with Nextel and our future plans for this network. Changes in our estimate of the useful life of the iDEN network assets could cause depreciation charges in future periods to change in amounts that could be material. We perform annual internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of depreciable lives for most categories of property, plant and equipment. These studies utilize models that take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, and assumptions about technology evolution, and in certain instances use actuarially determined probabilities to calculate the remaining life of our asset base. If our studies had resulted in a depreciable rate that was 5% higher or lower than those used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, recorded depreciation expense would have been impacted by approximately $260 million. We review our long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining the occurrence of a triggering event that requires an evaluation of the recoverability of our long lived assets. If the total of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of our assets, a loss, if any, is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the assets. Impairment analyses, when performed, are based on our current business and technology strategy, our views of growth rates for our business, anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions and expected technological availability. In 2005, we recorded $127 million in asset impairment charges primarily related to write downs of various software applications. In 2004, we determined that business conditions and events impacting our Long Distance operations constituted an indicator of possible impairment requiring an evaluation of the recoverability of the Long Distance long lived assets, which resulted in a non cash asset impairment charge of $3.5 billion, reducing the net carrying value of Long Distance property, plant and equipment by about 60% to $2.3 billion at September 30, 2004. Additionally, we recognized a non cash charge of $21 million in 2004 to adjust the carrying value of our wholesale Dial IP assets to fair value. These impairments represented 54% of Long Distances property, plant and equipment, net and 13% of the consolidated property, plant and equipment, net at December 31, 2003. In 2003, we recorded $303 million associated with the termination of our web hosting service and $349 million associated with the terminated development of a new billing platform and a software development project. 45 Valuation and Recoverability of Intangible Assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives represented $40 billion of our $103 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2005. Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles, which primarily consist of our spectrum licenses, are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. We test goodwill for impairment by comparing the net book value of assets of each of our reporting units, identified as our operating segments, to estimates of its respective fair values. We test indefinite life intangibles for impairment by comparing an assets respective carrying value to estimates of fair value. Fair value is determined using the direct value method, which requires the use of estimates, judgments and projections. We performed our annual impairment test of FCC spectrum licenses and goodwill in the fourth quarter 2005 and concluded that there was no impairment, as the estimates of fair value of these intangible assets exceeded their carrying values. The accounting estimates related to goodwill and indefinite life intangibles require us to make assumptions about fair values. The impact of recognizing an impairment could be material to our financial position and results of operations. Our assumptions about fair values require significant judgment because economic factors, industry factors and technology considerations can result in variable and volatile fair values. In addition, a significant amount of judgment is involved in determining the occurrence of a triggering event that requires an evaluation of the recoverability of our goodwill or intangible assets. In 2003, we decided to end pursuit of a residential fixed wireless strategy using certain of our BRS spectrum, which resulted in an impairment analysis in which we determined that there had been a decline in our estimate of the fair value of our BRS spectrum. As a result, we recorded a non cash charge of $1.2 billion, which reduced the carrying value to $300 million. We continue to invest in additional 2.5 GHz spectrum rights, test new technology that could be used to provide services using this spectrum, monitor industry developments and participate in FCC proceedings in an effort to obtain favorable regulatory rulings with respect to this spectrum. Valuation of Acquired Assets and Liabilities In connection with the Sprint Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005, as required by SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, we allocated the purchase price to the assets acquired, including goodwill and spectrum licenses, and liabilities assumed from Nextel based on their respective fair values at the merger date. The approach to the estimation of the fair values of the Nextel goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets was primarily based on the income approach valuation technique. We are in the process of finalizing internal studies of the assets acquired in the Sprint Nextel merger and the acquisitions of US Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless, and IWO Holdings, including investments, property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, and certain liabilities relevant to the allocation of the purchase price. The fair values recorded as of December 31, 2005, are based on preliminary valuations and are subject to adjustment as additional information is obtained. Such additional information includes, but may not be limited to, the following: valuations and physical counts of property, plant and equipment, plans relative to the disposition of certain assets acquired, exit from certain contractual arrangements and the involuntary termination of employees. When finalized, we may be required to make adjustments that could impact our results of operations and financial position, some of which could be material. Employee Benefit Plan Assumptions Retirement benefits are a significant cost of doing business for us, yet represent obligations that will be settled far in the future. Retirement benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of the future benefit costs over the employees expected tenure with us based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding decisions made by us. The accounting requires that management make assumptions regarding such variables as the discount rate, return on assets, and future health care costs. Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact on the projected benefit obligation and periodic benefit cost incurred by us. 46 In determining pension obligations, we are required to develop assumptions for the discount rate and return on plan assets. These assumptions are subject to market performance, which has fluctuated in the recent past and could have continued volatility in the future. In selecting our discount rate, our third party actuaries construct a hypothetical portfolio of bonds rated AA or better that produces a cash flow matching the projected benefit payments of the plan. For the December 31, 2005 measurement date, this exercise produced a range of 5.67% 5.87%, and our discount rate was set at 5.75%, a 25 basis point decrease from December 31, 2004. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the reported projected benefit obligation. In contrast, if the discount rate used in 2005 in determining the projected benefit obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $179 million increase in the projected benefit obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a $27 million increase in the benefit costs. Our return on asset assumption is 8.75% and has not changed since late 2003. To determine our assumption for the return on assets, we consider forward looking estimates of the expected long term returns for a portfolio invested according to our target investment policy. This assumption was initially developed from estimates provided by two investment consulting firms in late 2003 when we revised our target asset allocation policy, and is validated each year against estimates provided by our third party actuaries. If the expected return on assets assumption was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $9 million increase in current year benefit costs. This assumption is not used in the calculation of the pension projected benefit obligation. In determining post retirement medical and life insurance benefit obligations, assumptions are made concerning the cost of health care, including medical inflation and discount rates. A one percentage point increase in the assumed medical inflation rate would generate a $37 million increase in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation reported on the balance sheet, and a $2 million increase in benefit costs. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the reported accumulated postretirement benefit obligation. In contrast, if the discount rate used in 2005 in determining the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 25 basis points lower, it would generate a $16 million increase in the obligation as of December 31, 2005 and an immaterial impact on benefit costs. Tax Valuation Allowances We are required to estimate the amount of tax payable or refundable for the current year and the deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in our financial statements or tax returns for each taxing jurisdiction in which we operate. This process requires our management to make assessments regarding the timing and probability of the ultimate tax impact. We record valuation allowances on deferred tax assets if we determine it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. Additionally, we establish reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain positions could be challenged, and the positions may not be fully sustained. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, the expected spin off of Embarq, significant changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate, our inability to generate sufficient future taxable income or unpredicted results from the final determination of each years liability by taxing authorities. These changes could have a significant impact on our financial position. The accounting estimate related to the tax valuation allowance requires us to make assumptions regarding the timing of future events, including the probability of expected future taxable income and available tax planning opportunities. These assumptions require significant judgment because actual performance has fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. The impact that changes in actual performance versus these estimates could have on the realization of tax benefits as reported in our results of operations could be material. We carried an income tax valuation allowance of $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2005. This amount includes a valuation allowance for the total tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards, subject to utilization restrictions, acquired in connection with certain acquisitions. The remainder of the valuation allowance relates to capital loss, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Assumption changes that result in a reduction of expected benefits from realization of capital loss, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards by 10% would increase our valuation allowance by $55 million. 47 Significant New Accounting Pronouncements SFAS No. 123R In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued SFAS No. 123R, Share Based Payment. This statement requires an entity to recognize the cost of employee services received in share based payment transactions, through the use of fair value based methods of recognizing cost. This statement is effective for us as of January 1, 2006. We voluntarily adopted fair value accounting for share based payments effective January 1, 2003, under SFAS No. 123 as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure, using the prospective method. Upon adoption, we began expensing the fair value of stock based compensation for all grants, modifications or settlements made on or after January 1, 2003. In connection with the conversion of the PCS common stock into our common stock in the tracking stock recombination, as required by SFAS No. 123, we accounted for the conversion of options to purchase PCS stock into options to purchase our common stock as a modification and, accordingly, applied stock option expensing to the options to acquire our common stock resulting from the conversion of PCS stock options granted before January 1, 2003. Further, in connection with the Nextel merger, we accounted for the conversion of Nextel stock options to our stock options as a modification and, accordingly, applied stock option expensing to the unvested stock options beginning on the merger date. The revised standard will require us to begin to recognize compensation cost for unvested common stock options granted to our employees before January 1, 2003, which are outstanding as of January 1, 2006. The requirement to recognize expense on these unvested grants is expected to be immaterial to us. SFAS No. 151 In November 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 151, Inventory Costs an amendment of Accounting Research Bulletin, or ARB, No. 43, Chapter 4. This statement requires that items such as idle facility expense, excessive spoilage, double freight, and rehandling costs be recognized as current period charges regardless of whether they meet the definition of abnormal provided in ARB No. 43, Chapter 4, Inventory Pricing. The statement is effective for inventory costs incurred during fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. We do not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on our financial statements. Results of Operations Consolidated Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Net operating revenues $ 34,680 $ 27,428 $ 26,197 Net income (loss) 1,785 (1,012 ) 1,290 The discussion of our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes the financial results of Nextel for the last 141 days of the year, consistent with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. The inclusion of these results renders direct comparisons with results for prior periods less meaningful. Accordingly, the discussion below addresses, where appropriate, trends we believe are significant, separate and apart from the impact of the merger with Nextel. Net operating revenues increased 26% in 2005, reflecting growth in revenues of our Wireless and Local segments, partially offset by declining revenues of our Long Distance segment. Operating expenses increased 11% in 2005 primarily due to increases in the operating expenses of our Wireless segment, partially offset by a decrease in the operating expenses of our Long Distance segment. 48 In 2005, we recorded merger and integration costs of $608 million. Merger and integration costs are generally non recurring in nature and primarily include charges for costs to adopt and launch a new branding strategy and logos, including costs to re brand company owned stores and facilities, costs to train customer facing employees and prepare systems for the launch of the common customer interfacing systems, processes and other integration planning and execution costs, and costs related to employee retention and involuntary separations of employees. These merger and integration costs were primarily related to our merger with Nextel and the planned spin off of Embarq. Merger and integration costs have primarily been reflected as unallocated corporate selling, general and administrative expenses and, therefore, are excluded from segment results. In 2005, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $125 million. Asset impairment charges primarily related to the write down of various software applications, including a $77 million impairment charge related to the write off and removal from service of certain internal use software systems that are no longer utilized by our Local segment. We also incurred asset impairments arising from the hurricanes in the Gulf Coast region, but these asset impairments were substantially offset by insurance recoveries. In 2005, we also recorded hurricane related charges of $111 million exclusive of the asset impairment charges. Approximately $85 million, $15 million and $11 million of these charges were reflected on the Wireless, Long Distance and Local segments, respectively. In 2005, we recorded income of $154 million related to activities associated with various equity method investments and marketable securities transactions. This income is primarily the result of our recording $137 million of equity in earnings associated with our ownership interest in Nextel Partners, the majority of which related to a release by Nextel Partners of a significant portion of its deferred tax valuation allowance in the third quarter 2005. In 2004, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $3.7 billion primarily related to the impairment of our Long Distance property, plant and equipment and severance costs associated with our organizational realignment initiatives and the termination of the web hosting service. In 2003, we recorded net restructuring charges and asset impairments of $2.0 billion, which consisted of: impairment charges associated with the decline in our estimates of fair value of certain of our BRS spectrum; other asset impairments, facilities and severance charges associated with the termination of our web hosting service; impairment charges associated with the termination of development of a new billing platform; impairment charges associated with the termination of software development projects; and severance costs associated with our transformation to a customer focused organizational design; partially offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities. Segmental Results of Operations Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. In 2005, we determined that recategorization of certain costs from costs of services and products to selling, general and administrative would be more consistent with current industry practices, and accordingly reclassified $1.1 billion of expenses in each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. These costs primarily consist of certain customer care and information technology costs for the Wireless and Long Distance segments. Wireless Through our Wireless segment, we, together with the remaining PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands and provide wireless coverage in over 300 metropolitan markets, including the 125 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, to more than 277 million people. Combined with the PCS Affiliates, Nextel Partners and our MVNO wholesale resellers, we served more than 49.6 million subscribers at the end of 2005. We provide a comprehensive suite of advanced wireless services, including digital wireless mobile telephone service, instant national and international walkie talkie capabilities and wireless data transmission services. 49 These services are provided using two networks, the CDMA technology based network that was operated by us prior to the Nextel merger and the iDEN technology based network that was operated by Nextel prior to the merger. We plan to develop handsets that are capable of operating on both of these networks, which is expected to enhance the services available to our customers. We expect to take other actions to capture capital and operating efficiencies as the network operations are combined. We offer wireless international voice roaming around the globe. International roaming is available with a PCS tri mode (CDMA/analog) phone in areas of more than 40 countries, including countries in the Asia Pacific, South American and Caribbean regions, as well as Canada and Mexico. International roaming is also available with a GSM capable phone in over 140 countries in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and the South Pacific rim. We also have roaming or interoperability agreements with iDEN based wireless service providers that operate in Latin America and Canada. We are continuing to execute our plans that will enable us to offer faster wireless data speeds by deploying EV DO technology across the CDMA network. With peak rates of up to 2.4 megabits per second for downloads, EV DO will accelerate average mobile device data speeds up to 10 times when compared to the prior generation technology. This technology is expected to deliver superior application and service performance on EV DO capable handsets and laptops equipped with EV DO enabled Sprint PCS Connection Cards. Our first commercial rollout of EV DO was in the second quarter 2005 and subsequent rollouts will continue to expand our footprint to provide coverage to more people and markets. Wireless Year Ended December 31, 2005 % ofOperating Revenues Year EndedDecember 31, 2004 % ofOperating Revenues Change from Previous Year Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Net operating revenues Service $ 19,289 86 % $ 12,529 86 % $ 6,760 54 % Equipment 2,147 10 % 1,510 10 % 637 42 % Wholesale, affiliate and other 892 4 % 608 4 % 284 47 % Total net operating revenues 22,328 100 % 14,647 100 % 7,681 52 % Operating expenses Costs of services and products 8,604 39 % 6,091 42 % 2,513 41 % Selling, general and administrative 6,838 30 % 4,411 30 % 2,427 55 % Restructuring and asset impairment 20 NM 30 NM (10 ) (33 )% Depreciation 3,358 15 % 2,557 17 % 801 31 % Amortization 1,335 6 % 6 NM 1,329 NM Total operating expenses 20,155 90 % 13,095 89 % 7,060 54 % Operating income $ 2,173 10 % $ 1,552 11 % $ 621 40 % Capital expenditures $ 3,545 $ 2,559 $ 986 39 % NM: Not Meaningful 50 Wireless Year Ended December 31, 2004 % ofOperating Revenues Year EndedDecember 31, 2003 % ofOperating Revenues Change from Previous Year Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Net operating revenues Service $ 12,529 86 % $ 11,217 88 % $ 1,312 12 % Equipment 1,510 10 % 1,143 9 % 367 32 % Wholesale, affiliate and other 608 4 % 330 3 % 278 84 % Total net operating revenues 14,647 100 % 12,690 100 % 1,957 15 % Operating expenses Costs of services and products 6,091 42 % 5,162 41 % 929 18 % Selling, general and administrative 4,411 30 % 4,078 32 % 333 8 % Restructuring and asset impairment 30 NM 362 3 % (332 ) (92 )% Depreciation 2,557 17 % 2,454 19 % 103 4 % Amortization 6 NM 6 NM Total operating expenses 13,095 89 % 12,056 95 % 1,039 9 % Operating income $ 1,552 11 % $ 634 5 % $ 918 145 % Capital expenditures $ 2,559 $ 2,123 $ 436 21 % NM: Not Meaningful The following results are included in the results of our Wireless segment through December 31, 2005: the results of Nextel from the August 12, 2005 date of completion of the merger; the results of US Unwired from the August 12, 2005 date of the acquisition; the results of Gulf Coast Wireless from the October 3, 2005 date of acquisition; and the results of IWO Holdings from the October 20, 2005 date of acquisition. Net Operating Revenues For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Direct subscribers, end of period (millions) 39.7 17.8 15.9 Direct net subscriber additions (millions) 3.0 1.9 1.1 Customer churn rate 2.3 % 2.6 % 2.7 % Average monthly service revenue per user $ 62 $ 62 $ 61 Net operating revenues primarily consist of direct wireless service revenues, revenues from handset and accessory sales and revenues from arrangements with wholesale operators and PCS Affiliates. Service revenues consist of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges, charges related to the use of specified features and miscellaneous fees such as directory assistance, operator assisted calling, equipment protection, late payment charges, and certain regulatory fees. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues consist primarily of net revenues retained from wireless subscribers residing in PCS Affiliate territories and revenues from the sale of wireless services to companies that resell those services to their subscribers. Service revenues increased $6,760 million or 54% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel and the increase in the number of our direct subscribers, while our average monthly service revenue per user remained flat. We had 3.0 million direct net subscriber additions in 2005, excluding Nextel or PCS Affiliate subscriber additions that occurred prior to the Sprint Nextel merger and the acquisitions of US Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless and IWO Holdings, and ended the year with 39.7 million direct subscribers. We believe that the growth in direct subscribers, separate from the growth attributable to subscribers gained as part of the Sprint Nextel merger and PCS Affiliate acquisitions, is the result of a number of factors, principally: our differentiating products and services, particularly data related services such as nationwide walkie talkie services, Sprint PowerVision, instant messaging and emails, sending and receiving pictures, playing games with full color graphics and polyphonic sounds and browsing the Internet wirelessly; 51 the introduction of more competitive service pricing plans which are targeted at meeting more of our customers needs; selected handset pricing promotions and improved handset choices; increased brand name recognition as a result of increased advertising and marketing campaigns, including advertising and marketing related to our sponsorship of NASCAR and our agreement with the NFL that began in 2005; increased market penetration as a result of opening additional retail stores and selling efforts targeted at specific vertical markets; and the improvement in subscriber retention, which we believe is attributable to the impact of competitive rate plans, as well as our focus on delivering high quality and differentiated service. Our average monthly service revenue per user remained stable at $62 in 2004 and 2005 as: we integrated Nextel subscribers, who have a higher average monthly service revenue, in the third quarter 2005; we saw an increase in revenues from data services, as subscribers used more short message service, or SMS, text messaging and took advantage of our wider array of premium services; and we experienced a full year of increased equipment protection plan rates that were restructured in 2004; these increases were offset as we continued to offer more competitive service pricing plans, including lower priced plans, plans with a higher number of bundled minutes included in the fixed monthly charge for the plan, plans that offer the ability to share minutes among a group of related customers, or a combination of these features. We expect that service revenues will increase in absolute terms in the future as a result of an increasing subscriber base. As competition among wireless communications providers has increased, we and our competitors have decreased prices while the average per subscriber utilization of wireless voice services has increased, resulting in both declining average monthly revenue per subscriber in the wireless industry overall and in declining average revenue per minute of use for voice services, and we expect these trends will continue. See Forward Looking Statements. Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories, generated from both new subscribers and upgrades, were approximately 10% of net operating revenues in both 2005 and 2004. These revenues increased $637 million or 42% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel. The remainder of the increase was due to a 6% increase in the number of CDMA handsets sold in 2005, largely offset by a 4% decrease in the average sales price of the CDMA handsets. We continued to lower our handset retail prices in 2005 as costs of handsets declined, and we also changed our third party compensation plan in 2005 from one that was based on discounted handsets to one that is commissions based. Additionally, we continued offering rebates on handsets as new promotional programs were rolled out. Consistent with industry practice, our marketing plans assume that handsets, net of rebates, will continue to be sold at prices below cost in most instances. Our retention efforts, which often include providing incentives in the form of new handsets, may cause our handset subsidies to increase as our customer base continues to grow. In addition, we may increase handset subsidies in response to the competitive environment. See Forward Looking Statements. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues increased $284 million or 47% from 2004 to 2005, reflecting the net subscriber additions in the wholesale and PCS Affiliate bases. Wholesale operators added 1.5 million subscribers 52 in 2005, ending the year with 5.2 million subscribers. The PCS Affiliates ended 2005 with 2.8 million subscribers, which has been adjusted for the subscriber transfers resulting from the acquisition of three PCS Affiliates during the year. We expect revenue from the remaining PCS Affiliates in 2006 to be significantly lower than 2005 because of the five PCS Affiliates that we purchased in 2005, and the first quarter 2006. Wholesale revenues are expected to increase year over year due to continued subscriber growth of existing resellers as well as the addition of new resellers, during 2006. See Forward Looking Statements. Service revenues increased $1.3 billion or 12% in 2004 compared to 2003, mainly reflecting an increase in the number of direct subscribers, increased revenue from data services and subscriber elections to add services to their base plans. These increases were partially offset by lower overage charges from usage based plans. We had 1.9 million direct net subscriber additions in 2004, including 91,000 subscribers acquired from a PCS Affiliate, and we ended 2004 with 17.8 million direct subscribers. Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories increased $367 million or 32% in 2004 compared to 2003 mainly due to higher subscriber additions and higher retail prices, which were partially offset by higher rebates. Wholesale, affiliate and other service revenues represented 4% of net operating revenues in 2004 and 3% in 2003. The $278 million increase in 2004 mainly reflects the net additions in the wholesale and PCS Affiliate bases. Wholesale operators added 2.1 million subscribers in 2004, increasing their subscriber base to 3.7 million from 1.6 million in 2003, principally driven by Virgin Mobile USA and Qwest Communications. The PCS Affiliates added 374,000 subscribers in 2004, ending the year with 3.2 million subscribers. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products consist of our cost of providing wireless service and cost of our handset and accessory revenues. Cost of providing wireless service consists primarily of: costs to operate and maintain our CDMA and iDEN networks, primarily including direct switch and transmitter and receiver site costs, such as rent, utilities, property taxes and maintenance; payroll and facilities costs associated with our network engineering employees; frequency leasing costs; and roaming fees paid to other carriers; fixed and variable interconnection costs, the fixed component of which consists of monthly flat rate fees for facilities leased from local exchange carriers based on the number of transmitter and receiver sites and switches in service in a particular period and the related equipment installed at each site; and the variable component of which generally consists of per minute use fees charged by wireline and wireless providers for calls terminating on their networks, which fluctuates in relation to the level and duration of those terminating calls; and costs to activate service for new subscribers. Cost of handset and accessory revenues consists primarily of the cost of the handsets and accessories sold, order fulfillment related expenses and write downs of handset and related accessory inventory for shrinkage. We recognize the cost of handset revenues, including the handset costs in excess of the revenues generated from handset sales and accessory revenues when title to the handset or accessory passes to the dealer or end user customer. Cost of service was 58% of total costs of services and products in 2005 compared to 54% in 2004. These costs increased $1,688 million or 52% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel as well as increased costs relating to the expansion of our network and increased minutes of use on our networks. Specifically we experienced: an increase in transmitter and receiver and switch related operational costs due to the increase in transmitter and receiver sites and capacity enhancements placed into service during 2005; 53 increased long distance and roaming costs due to the increase in our direct subscriber base; higher PCS Affiliate and wholesale costs as the related subscriber bases increased throughout 2005; an increase in premium service fees resulting from increased subscriber data usage; and an increase in EV DO backhaul costs driven by the increased capacity required to support the launch of this service in 2005. We expect the aggregate amount of cost of service to increase as customer usage of our networks increases and we add more sites and other equipment to expand the coverage and capacity of our CDMA and iDEN networks. See Forward Looking Statements, Liquidity and Capital Resources and Future Capital Needs and Resources Capital Needs Capital Expenditures. Handset and accessory costs were 42% of total costs of services and products in 2005 compared to 46% in 2004. These costs increased $825 million or 29% from 2004 to 2005 due to the merger with Nextel. Excluding this impact, handset and accessory costs actually decreased from 2004 to 2005. The 6% increase in volume of CDMA handsets sold during 2005 was more than offset by an 8% decrease in the average cost per handset. Additionally, equipment refurbishment costs have declined since 2004 due to operational improvements in the handset exchange and insurance programs as well as increased insurance deductibles implemented in early 2005 to offset a portion of our costs. Costs of services and products increased 18% from 2003 to 2004, primarily due to network support of a larger subscriber base, higher minutes of use, expanded market coverage and increased handset costs. Handset and accessory costs were 46% of total costs of services and products in 2004 and 2003, and costs of services and products were 42% of net operating revenues in 2004 and 41% in 2003. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling and marketing costs primarily consist of customer acquisition costs, including commissions earned by our indirect dealers, distributors and our direct sales force for new handset activations, residual payments to our indirect dealers, payroll and facilities costs associated with our direct sales force, retail stores and marketing employees, telemarketing, advertising, media programs and sponsorships, including costs related to branding. General and administrative costs primarily consist of fees paid for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense and back office support activities, including customer retention, collections, legal, finance, human resources, strategic planning and technology and product development, along with the related payroll and facilities costs. Selling, general and administrative expense was 30% of net operating revenues in 2005 and 2004. Sales and marketing expense increased $1,266 million or 56% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel including the launch of new branding initiatives and advertising campaigns in connection with the merger. The remaining increase in selling and marketing expense reflects: increased sales and distribution costs to support a larger direct subscriber base, as well as a shift in the compensation of our third party dealers from a discounted handset based plan to a commissions based plan that was implemented in 2005; and increased advertising and marketing costs, focusing on the customer experience, more corporate sponsorships including the NFL and more media advertising associated with the merger and the launch of our new Yes You Can brand campaign. 54 General and administrative costs increased $1,161 million or 54% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel, as well as: an increase in bad debt expense. The reserve for bad debt requires our judgment and is based on historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was 1.5% in 2005 and 1.4% in 2004. The reserve for bad debt as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 6% in 2005 and 7% in 2004; and an increase in information technology and billing expenses to support a larger subscriber base in addition to an increase in credit card fees as more subscribers submit invoice payments through credit cards; partially offset by a decrease in our customer care costs as we outsourced more of our customer care calls to less expensive service centers, which more than offset the increase in volume. We expect the aggregate amount of selling, general and administrative expenses to continue increasing in absolute terms in the future primarily as a result of increased costs to support a growing customer base, including costs associated with billing, collection, customer retention and customer care activities. See Forward Looking Statements. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% from 2003 to 2004, reflecting an increase in sales and distribution costs primarily driven by higher gross additions and an increase in the number of direct retail stores. Selling and marketing costs also contributed to the increase as a significant campaign was launched to reposition the Sprint PCS brand in 2004. Selling, general and administrative expense was 30% of net operating revenues in 2004 and 32% in 2003. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was 1.4% in 2004 and 2.3% in 2003. The reserve for bad debt as a percent of outstanding accounts receivable was 7% in both 2004 and 2003. The stability of the 2004 percentage mainly reflects sales of previously written off subscriber receivables and reductions in reserves because number portability churn did not occur as anticipated. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In 2005, asset impairment charges of $27 million were recorded primarily related to the write down of various software applications. Restructuring credits of $7 million were the result of an analysis and finalization of original estimates related to our organizational realignment initiated in 2003. We have completed substantially all activities related to this realignment. In 2004, we recorded a $30 million restructuring charge related to severance costs associated with our organizational realignment. In 2003, we recorded asset impairments of $349 million primarily related to the termination of development of a new billing platform. We also recorded restructuring charges of $13 million for severance costs associated with our organizational realignment, and contractual obligations related to the termination of the development of the billing platform, partially offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring activities. Additional information regarding our asset impairments can be found in note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Estimates and assumptions are used both in setting depreciable lives and testing for recoverability. Assumptions are based on internal studies of use, industry data on lives, recognition of technological advancements and understanding of business strategy. Depreciation expense consists mainly of depreciation of network assets. Amortization expense consists mainly of amortization of customer relationship intangible assets. 55 Depreciation expense increased $801 million or 31% from 2004 to 2005 primarily due to the merger with Nextel. Excluding this impact, depreciation expense increased as a result of an increase in transmitter and receiver sites in service and the costs to modify existing switches and transmitter and receiver sites in existing markets primarily to enhance the capacity of our networks. Amortization expense increased $1,329 million from 2004 to 2005 due primarily to amortization expense related to the customer contracts acquired with the Sprint Nextel merger and acquisition of five PCS Affiliates. Depreciation expense increased 4% in 2004 mainly reflecting depreciation of the network assets placed in service during that year. Long Distance Through our Long Distance segment, we provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services targeted to domestic business and residential customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international voice, data communications using various protocols such as MPLS, IP, ATM, and frame relay and managed network services. We are one of the nations largest providers of long distance services and operate all digital long distance and Tier 1 IP networks. We also provide services to the cable telephony market through arrangements with cable companies that resell our long distance service, local services such as 911, directory and basic local features, and or use our back office systems and network assets in support of their local telephone service provided over cable facilities. We determined that business conditions and events that occurred in 2004 and impacted our operations constituted a triggering event requiring an evaluation of the recoverability of our long lived assets pursuant to SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. We reevaluated our strategy and financial forecasts in 2004 resulting in a $3.5 billion pre tax non cash impairment charge to the Long Distance long lived assets. Additional information regarding our asset impairments can be found in note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Long Distance Year Ended December 31, 2005 % ofOperating Revenues Year EndedDecember 31, 2004 % ofOperating Revenues Change from Previous Year Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Net operating revenues Voice $ 4,213 61 % $ 4,560 62 % $ (347 ) (8 )% Data 1,632 24 % 1,722 24 % (90 ) (5 )% Internet 736 11 % 793 11 % (57 ) (7 )% Other 253 4 % 252 3 % 1 NM Total net operating revenues 6,834 100 % 7,327 100 % (493 ) (7 )% Operating expenses Costs of services and products 4,378 64 % 4,249 58 % 129 3 % Selling, general and administrative 1,440 21 % 1,935 26 % (495 ) (26 )% Restructuring and asset impairment 15 1 % 3,661 50 % (3,646 ) (100 )% Depreciation 488 7 % 1,070 15 % (582 ) (54 )% Amortization 1 NM 1 NM 0 % Total operating expenses 6,322 93 % 10,916 149 % (4,594 ) (42 )% Operating income (loss) $ 512 7 % $ (3,589 ) (49 )% $ 4,101 114 % Capital expenditures $ 384 $ 282 $ 102 36 % NM: Not Meaningful 56 Long Distance Year Ended December 31, 2004 % ofOperating Revenues Year EndedDecember 31, 2003 % ofOperating Revenues Change from Previous Year Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Net operating revenues Voice $ 4,560 62 % $ 4,999 63 % $ (439 ) (9 )% Data 1,722 24 % 1,853 23 % (131 ) (7 )% Internet 793 11 % 973 12 % (180 ) (18 )% Other 252 3 % 180 2 % 72 40 % Total net operating revenues 7,327 100 % 8,005 100 % (678 ) (8 )% Operating expenses Costs of services and products 4,249 58 % 4,180 52 % 69 2 % Selling, general and administrative 1,935 26 % 2,271 28 % (336 ) (15 )% Restructuring and asset impairment 3,661 50 % 1,564 20 % 2,097 134 % Depreciation 1,070 15 % 1,431 18 % (361 ) (25 )% Amortization 1 NM 1 NM Total operating expenses 10,916 149 % 9,447 118 % 1,469 16 % Operating loss $ (3,589 ) (49 )% $ (1,442 ) (18 )% $ (2,147 ) 149 % Capital expenditures $ 282 $ 339 $ (57 ) (17 )% NM: Not Meaningful Net Operating Revenues Net operating revenues decreased 7% in 2005 and 8% in 2004. Lower pricing associated with voice services, the decline in the unbundled network element platform as we exited that market, and migration from legacy data products played a large role in the declines for both years. Additionally, the termination of a large Dial IP contract during 2004 and the sale of our wholesale Dial IP business in 2004 further contributed to the decreasing revenues. Partially offsetting these declines in revenue were incremental revenues from selling services to the cable companies. In October 2004, we completed the sale of our wholesale Dial IP business for $34 million. These assets were classified as held for sale on September 30, 2004, and an associated pre tax non cash charge of $21 million was included in the 2004 impairment charge. In 2006, we expect to see continued revenue declines in Long Distance due to lower pricing on commercial contracts and continued pressures in the consumer long distance market. Increased competition and the significant increase in capacity resulting from new technologies and networks may drive already low prices down further. See Forward Looking Statements. Voice Revenues Voice revenues decreased 8% in 2005 and 9% in 2004. Intense competition from the cable industry and the major local exchange carriers for consumer and small business customers, as well as wireless, e mail and instant messaging substitution continue to erode the retail base and drive lower prices per minute, despite an 11% increase in call volume in 2005 and a 13% increase in 2004. These declines were partially offset by an increase in lower yielding affiliate and wholesale revenue primarily from our relationships with certain cable providers. Voice revenues generated from the provision of services to Wireless and Local represented 15% of total voice revenues in 2005 compared to 13% in 2004. Data Revenues Data revenues reflect sales of current generation data services, including ATM, managed network services, private line, and frame relay services. Data revenues decreased 5% in 2005 and 7% in 2004. In 2005, frame relay 57 and ATM declined due to customers migrating to IP based technologies. These declines were partially offset by growth in managed network services. In 2004, the decrease in frame relay and private line services was partially offset by an increase in ATM and managed network services. Internet Revenues Internet revenues decreased 7% in 2005 and 18% in 2004. The 2005 decline was primarily due to the loss of the Dial IP revenues due to the sale of our Dial IP business in October 2004. These revenues were partially replaced by an increase in dedicated IP revenue as customers migrated from ATM and frame relay technologies to next generation MPLS technologies. The decline in 2004 was the result of a decrease in Dial IP revenues and the discontinuation of our web hosting service, partially offset by an increase in dedicated IP revenue . Other Revenues Other revenues remained flat in 2005 after increasing 40% in 2004. The 2004 increase was primarily due to higher equipment sales. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include access costs paid to local phone companies (including our Local segment), other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by our domestic customers, costs to operate and maintain our networks, and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products increased 3% in 2005 and 2% in 2004. The 2005 increase was driven by access volume and international access costs, somewhat offset by renegotiated access rate agreements and initiatives to reduce access unit costs. These costs were partially offset by the recognition of a portion of the deferred gain from the sale of the conferencing business, which was sold in June 2005. The 2004 increase was primarily attributable to higher access volume, somewhat offset by renegotiated access rate agreements and initiatives to reduce access unit costs. Costs of services and products were 64% of net operating revenues in 2005, 58% in 2004 and 52% in 2003. These increases occurred as a result of the overall reductions in net operating revenues. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 26% in 2005 and 15% in 2004. The 2005 decline was due primarily to continued restructuring efforts, headcount reductions, aggressive cost savings initiatives, reduced rent costs and lower bad debt expense in the wholesale markets. The 2004 decline was due to restructuring efforts and general cost controls. Selling, general and administrative expense includes charges for estimated bad debt expense. The reserve for bad debt requires managements judgment and is based on customer specific indicators, as well as historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net operating revenues was less than 1% in 2005, 2% in 2004, and 1% in 2003. The reserve for bad debt as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 8% in 2005, 12% in 2004 and 11% in 2003. Total selling general and administrative expense was 21% of net operating revenues in 2005, 26% in 2004, and 28% in 2003. Restructuring and Asset Impairments In 2005, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $15 million, of which $9 million related to the write off of certain internal use software systems that are no longer being utilized. The remaining 58 charges are costs associated with the wind down of our web hosting service. Activities related to this wind down are substantially complete; however, we continue to be obligated under facility leases that expire from 2007 through 2014. In 2004, we recorded asset impairments of $3.5 billion related to our property, plant and equipment. We also recorded charges of $121 million related to severance costs and termination of facility leases associated with our transformation initiatives and the ongoing wind down of our web hosting service. In 2003, we recorded asset impairments of $1.2 billion related to a decline in the fair value of our BRS spectrum. The decision to wind down the web hosting service resulted in a $316 million asset impairment charge, and associated restructuring charges of $60 million related to severance and facility lease terminations. Additional information regarding our asset impairments can be found in note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Depreciation Expense Depreciation expense decreased 54% in 2005 and 25% in 2004. The decrease in both years was primarily driven by the reduction in value of assets associated with the impairment of our property, plant and equipment in 2004, as well as a decreased asset base due to the wind down of the web hosting service in 2003. Additionally, in 2004, we extended the depreciable life of certain high capacity transmission equipment from eight years to twelve years due to slower anticipated evolution of technology. This extension in life decreased the 2004 depreciation expense by approximately $74 million. Depreciation expense was 7% of net operating revenues in 2005, 15% in 2004, and 18% in 2003. Local Our Local segment consists mainly of regulated incumbent local phone companies serving approximately 7.4 million access lines in 18 states. We provide local and long distance voice and data services, including DSL, access by customers and other carriers to the local network, sales of telecommunications equipment and other telecommunications related services. We provide wireless and video services through agency relationships. Our wholesale telecommunications product distribution business, known as North Supply, is also part of the Local segment. Local Year Ended December 31, 2005 % ofOperating Revenues Year EndedDecember 31, 2004 % ofOperating Revenues Change from Previous Year Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Net operating revenues Voice $ 4,335 66 % $ 4,498 70 % $ (163 ) (4 )% Data 983 15 % 833 13 % 150 18 % Other 1,209 19 % 1,090 17 % 119 11 % Total net operating revenues 6,527 100 % 6,421 100 % 106 2 % Operating expenses Costs of services and products 2,407 37 % 2,198 34 % 209 10 % Selling, general and administrative 1,190 18 % 1,358 21 % (168 ) (12 )% Restructuring and asset impairment 82 1 % 40 1 % 42 105 % Depreciation 1,090 17 % 1,089 17 % 1 NM Total operating expenses 4,769 73 % 4,685 73 % 84 2 % Operating income $ 1,758 27 % $ 1,736 27 % $ 22 1 % Capital expenditures $ 857 $ 1,018 $ (161 ) (16 )% NM: Not Meaningful 59 Local Year Ended December 31, 2004 % ofOperating Revenues Year EndedDecember 31, 2003 % ofOperating Revenues Change from Previous Year Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Net operating revenues Voice $ 4,498 70 % $ 4,654 72 % $ (156 ) (3 )% Data 833 13 % 730 11 % 103 14 % Other 1,090 17 % 1,102 17 % (12 ) (1 )% Total net operating revenues 6,421 100 % 6,486 100 % (65 ) (1 )% Operating expenses Costs of services and products 2,198 34 % 2,227 34 % (29 ) (1 )% Selling, general and administrative 1,358 21 % 1,325 20 % 33 2 % Restructuring and asset impairment 40 1 % 25 1 % 15 60 % Depreciation 1,089 17 % 1,089 17 % 0 % Total operating expenses 4,685 73 % 4,666 72 % 19 NM Operating income $ 1,736 27 % $ 1,820 28 % $ (84 ) (5 )% Capital expenditures $ 1,018 $ 1,201 $ (183 ) (15 )% NM: Not Meaningful Net Operating Revenues Net operating revenues increased 2% in 2005 compared to a decrease of 1% in 2004. The 2005 increase was driven by growth in North Supply product sales and data revenue partially offset by lower voice revenue. In 2004, the increase in data revenue and North Supply product sales was more than offset by declines in voice revenue and other telecom equipment sales. We ended 2005 with 7.4 million switched access lines, a decrease of 4% from the prior year. Access lines decreased 3% in 2004. The decreases in 2005 and 2004 were driven principally by losses to wireless and cable providers, along with broadband substitution. Voice Revenues Voice revenues, consisting of revenue from local exchange services, long distance revenue and switched access revenue, decreased 4% in 2005 and 3% in 2004 due to the decreases in access lines and access minutes of use. The declines in both years were also impacted by the ending of FCC allowable cost recoveries associated with local number portability and recoveries for the cost of pooling telephone numbers in 2004. Data Revenues Data revenues are mainly derived from DSL, local data transport services, and special access. Data revenues increased 18% in 2005 and 14% in 2004 mainly as a result of strong growth in DSL lines and special access sales primarily to wireless companies. We ended 2005 with 693,000 DSL lines in service, an increase of 41% compared to 2004. Other Revenues Other revenues increased 11% in 2005 after decreasing 1% in 2004. The 2005 increase was principally driven by higher product sales due to a significant contract entered into by North Supply. The 2004 decrease was driven by a decline in telecom equipment sales resulting from both a planned shift in focus to selling higher margin products and a reduction in customer demand for equipment somewhat offset by an increase in North Supply product sales. 60 Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include costs to operate and maintain the local network and costs of equipment sales. These costs increased 10% in 2005 and decreased 1% in 2004. The 2005 increase was primarily driven by the increase in North Supply product sales, higher costs associated with our increase in DSL, somewhat offset by a decline in hurricane related expenses. In 2004, general expense controls and lower costs associated with telecom equipment sales were partially offset by an increase in North Supply product costs, higher pension costs and approximately $30 million of hurricane related expenses. Costs of services and products were 37% of net operating revenues in 2005 and 34% in both 2004 and 2003. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 12% in 2005 and increased 2% in 2004. The 2005 decrease was primarily driven by reduced business selling and information technology costs. The 2004 increase was primarily driven by higher pension costs and stock based compensation, somewhat offset by general cost controls. Selling, general and administrative expense includes charges for estimated bad debt expense. The reserve for bad debt requires managements judgment and is based on historical trending, industry norms and recognition of current market indicators about general economic conditions. Bad debt expense as a percentage of net revenues was 1% in 2005, 2004, and 2003. The reserve for bad debt expense as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 8% in 2005 and 9% in both 2004 and 2003. Selling, general and administrative expense was 18% of net operating revenues in 2005, and 21% in 2004 and 20% in 2003. Restructuring and Asset Impairment In 2005, we recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $82 million, of which $77 million related to the write off of certain internal use software systems that are no longer being utilized. In 2004, we recorded a $40 million restructuring charge related to severance costs associated with our organizational realignment. In 2003, we recorded restructuring charges of $25 million related to severance costs associated with our organizational realignment, offset by the finalization of all 2001 and 2002 restructuring liabilities. Additional information regarding our restructuring and asset impairments can be found in note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Depreciation Expense Depreciation expense was flat in 2005 as well as in 2004. Depreciation expense was 17% of net operating revenues in 2005, 2004, and 2003. 61 Nonoperating Items Year Ended December 31, Change from Previous Year 2005 2004 Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (1,351 ) $ (1,282 ) $ (69 ) (5 )% Interest income 238 61 177 NM Equity in earnings (losses) of unconsolidated subsidiaries 110 (39 ) 149 NM Loss on retirement of debt (60 ) 60 100 % Other, net 83 20 63 NM Income tax (provision) benefit (1,105 ) 591 (1,696 ) NM Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net (16 ) (16 ) (100 )% Income (loss) available to common shareholders $ 1,778 $ (1,028 ) $ 2,806 NM NM: Not Meaningful Year Ended December 31, Change from Previous Year 2004 2003 Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Interest expense $ (1,282 ) $ (1,437 ) $ 155 11 % Interest income 61 51 10 20 % Equity in losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries (39 ) (77 ) 38 49 % Loss on retirement of debt (60 ) (21 ) (39 ) NM Other, net 20 (27 ) 47 NM Income tax benefit 591 212 379 NM Discontinued operations, net 1,324 (1,324 ) (100 )% Cumulative effect of change in accounting principles, net 258 (258 ) (100 )% (Loss) income available to common shareholders $ (1,028 ) $ 1,283 $ (2,311 ) NM NM: Not Meaningful Interest Expense The effective interest rates in the following table reflect interest expense on long term debt only. Interest costs on short term borrowings, deferred compensation plans and amortization of debt costs have been excluded so as not to distort the effective interest rates on long term debt. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on our financing activities. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Effective interest rate on long term debt 6.8 % 6.9 % 7.0 % The effective interest rate includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements. Additional information regarding our interest rate swaps can be found in note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Although interest expense increased $69 million in 2005 compared to 2004 due to the additional indebtedness assumed in connection with the Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate acquisitions, the effective interest rate on long term debt decreased in 2005 from 6.9% to 6.8%. This decrease is primarily due to lower effective interest rates on the assumed Nextel long term debt. As of December 31, 2005, the average floating rate of interest on the swapped debt was 7.0%, while the weighted average coupon on the underlying debt was 7.2%. Our effective interest rate on long term debt decreased in 2004 as compared to 2003, primarily due to fair value interest rate swaps on $1 billion of long term debt that were entered into during 2003. 62 Interest Income Interest income for 2005, 2004 and 2003 includes dividends received from our investments in equity securities and interest earned on marketable debt securities. The $177 million increase in interest income from 2004 to 2005 is primarily due to the increase in the average cash and cash equivalents balances due to the Sprint Nextel merger. Interest income also benefited from a 200 basis point increase in Federal funds rates during 2005. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries Under the equity method of accounting, we record our proportional share of the losses of the company in which we have invested, up to the amount of our investment. We recorded $110 million of net equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries in 2005, primarily the result of recording $137 million of equity in earnings associated with our ownership interest in Nextel Partners, the majority of which related to a release by Nextel Partners of a significant portion of its deferred tax valuation allowance in the third quarter 2005. We recorded $39 million and $77 million of equity in losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries during 2004 and 2003, respectively, primarily driven by our investments in Virgin Mobile. Our equity in losses of unconsolidated subsidiaries decreased from 2003 to 2004 because, during 2004, our recorded losses from Virgin Mobile reached the amount of our investment and we suspended the recognition of our equity in Virgin Mobiles losses at that time. Additional information regarding our equity method investments can be found in note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Loss on Retirement of Debt We recorded charges of $60 million and $21 million in 2004 and 2003, respectively, to expense the carrying value of debt premiums due to the early retirement of debt. We did not incur any charges due to the early retirement of debt during 2005. Additional information regarding our long term debt can be found in note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Other, net We recognized $71 million of gains on the sale of investments during 2005. During the year, we realized a gain of $15 million from our sale of 5 million shares of our investment in NII Holdings Inc. We also used 10.5 million shares of our investment in Earthlink, Inc. to settle certain variable prepaid forward contracts for a gain of $9 million. Additionally, during 2005, Rogers Communications, Inc. acquired Call Net Enterprises, Inc., in which we held an equity method investment. This acquisition resulted in a gain of $18 million. In December 2005, we sold our remaining investment in Barak I.T.C. (1995) The International Telecommunications Services Corp. Ltd. for a nominal amount, and reversed previously recognized losses of $28 million. We recognized $15 million of gains on the sale of investments during 2004. These gains were primarily attributable to transactions involving our investment in Earthlink. We used 5.6 million shares to settle certain variable prepaid forward contracts and sold an additional 1 million shares of this investment for gains totaling $11 million. During 2003, we sold 10.8 million shares of our investment in Earthlink for a loss of $3 million. Our derivative transactions are used principally for hedging purposes. However, we entered into several derivative instruments during 2005 that did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. As a result, all changes in the fair values of these instruments were reflected in our results of operations in the period in which the change occurred. During 2005, we recognized approximately $27 million of losses due to the change in fair values of these instruments. Additional information regarding our derivative instruments and hedging activities can be found in note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. 63 Other increases in nonoperating income during 2005 included favorable foreign exchange rates used in foreign currency transactions and favorable terms in certain customer contracts. During 2004, we realized losses due to unfavorable foreign exchange transactions and charges of $15 million in advisory fees related to the recombination of our tracking stocks. During 2003, we recorded a $50 million charge, net of insurance settlements, to settle shareholder litigation. We also incurred losses related to foreign exchange transactions. Income Tax (Provision) Benefit Our consolidated effective tax rates were 38.0% in 2005, 36.9% in 2004, and 42.1% in 2003. Information regarding the differences that caused the effective income tax rates to vary from the statutory federal rate for income taxes related to continuing operations can be found in note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Discontinued Operations, net In 2003, we completed the sale of our directory publishing business to R.H. Donnelley for $2.2 billion in cash. The pretax gain was $2.1 billion. Financial Condition Our consolidated assets of $102.6 billion as of December 31, 2005 reflect an increase of $61.3 billion from 2004. This increase was primarily due to business combination activity, $56.4 billion of which reflects the fair value of Nextels assets, net of cash paid, and $555 million of which reflects the fair value of US Unwireds assets, net of cash paid, both of which were acquired in the third quarter 2005, $93 million of which reflects the fair value of Gulf Coast Wireless assets, net of cash paid, and $239 million of which reflects the fair value of IWO Holdings assets, net of cash paid, both of which were acquired in fourth quarter 2005. Additional information regarding the impact of business combinations on consolidated assets can be found in note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. The remainder of the increase in consolidated assets is primarily driven by cash and equivalents. Excluding net cash paid of $188 million in the Sprint Nextel merger and the acquisitions of US Unwired, Gulf Coast Wireless and IWO Holdings, cash and equivalents increased $4.9 billion. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information on the increase in cash. In August 2005, all three major credit rating agencies upgraded our debt ratings. Standard and Poors Corporate Ratings upgraded our long term senior unsecured debt to A from BBB and changed our credit rating outlook to stable from positive. Moodys Investor Service upgraded our long term senior unsecured debt rating to Baa2 from Baa3 and changed the credit rating outlook to stable from positive. Fitch Ratings upgraded our senior unsecured debt rating to BBB+ from BBB and changed our credit rating outlook to stable from positive. Liquidity and Capital Resources Year Ended December 31, Change FromPrevious Year 2005 2004 (dollars in billions) Cash and equivalents $ 8.9 $ 4.2 $ 4.7 Marketable securities 1.8 0.4 1.4 10.7 4.6 6.1 Undrawn bank credit facility 4.5 1.0 3.5 Undrawn and available accounts receivable asset securitization facilities 0.7 (0.7 ) Total liquidity $ 15.2 $ 6.3 $ 8.9 During December 2005, we entered into a new unsecured bank credit facility, consisting of a five year $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and a 364 day $3.2 billion term loan, for a total financing capacity of $9.2 billion. 64 This facility replaced the existing Nextel credit agreement, which included a $4.0 billion revolving credit facility, $1.0 billion of which was drawn, and a $2.2 billion term loan, all of which was outstanding. The new $3.2 billion term loan was used to refinance the outstanding revolving credit and term loans under the existing Nextel credit agreement. The $2.5 billion letter of credit required by the FCC Report and Order that was outstanding under the Nextel credit agreement remains outstanding under the new $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and reduces the available revolving loan commitments by an equivalent amount, leaving $3.5 billion of borrowing capacity available under the new credit facility at December 31, 2005. The full revolving loan commitment under our existing $1.0 billion bank credit facility was also available as of December 31, 2005. The credit agreements described above provide for interest rates equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, or Prime Rate plus a spread that varies depending on the applicable borrowers or guarantors credit ratings. None of these facilities includes rating triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facilities in the event of a credit rating downgrade. We had letters of credit of $125 million as of December 31, 2005, in addition to the $2.5 billion letter of credit related to the Report and Order. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all debt covenants, including all financial ratio tests, associated with our borrowings. Our ability to fund our capital needs is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the bank and securities markets. Given the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely and to take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable capital structure cost. As of December 31, 2005, we had working capital of $5.0 billion compared to $3.1 billion as of December 31, 2004. In addition to cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities, a significant portion of our working capital consists of accounts receivable, handset inventory, prepaid expenses, deferred tax assets and other current assets, net of accounts payable, accrued expenses and the current portion of long term debt and capital lease obligations. The increase in working capital is primarily due to the approximately $2.6 billion of working capital acquired as a result of the Nextel merger. Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, Change from Previous Year 2005 2004 Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 10,678 $ 6,625 $ 4,053 61 % Cash used in investing activities (4,724 ) (4,056 ) (668 ) 16 % Cash used in financing activities (1,228 ) (680 ) (548 ) 81 % Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $10.7 billion increased $4.1 billion in 2005 from 2004. Cash received from customers increased by approximately $7.4 billion, which was partially offset by a $4.6 billion increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees. These increases were primarily the result of the operations of Nextel being included with our operations beginning on August 12, 2005, as well as continued growth in the Wireless customer base, partially offset by merger related costs. Additionally, cash flows provided by operating activities for 2005 include the receipt of $1.2 billion in prepaid tower rentals from Global Signal in exchange for granting Global Signal the exclusive rights to lease or operate more than 6,600 communications towers owned by us. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities totaled $4.7 billion in 2005 compared to $4.1 billion in 2004. Capital expenditures, which accounted for $5.1 billion of our investing activities in 2005, increased from $4.0 billion in 65 2004 due primarily to higher spending related to our Wireless segment, partially offset by spending reductions related to our Local segment. We invested in our Wireless segment primarily to maintain and enhance network reliability and upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services, including the deployment of EV DO technology, as well as to maintain the iDEN network reliability as we fulfill our obligations under the Report and Order. We invested in our Local segment primarily to accommodate voice grade equivalent growth, convert the network from circuit to packet switching and continue the build out of high speed DSL services, and to meet regulatory requirements. We invested in our Long Distance segment to maintain network reliability, upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services and meet capacity demands. Investing activities also reflect $1.2 billion of net cash acquired in the merger with Nextel, offset by $968 million of net cash paid to acquire US Unwired, $211 million of net cash paid to acquire Gulf Coast Wireless and $192 million of net cash paid to acquire IWO Holdings. Additionally, investing activities include proceeds from the sale of assets, including the receipt of $376 million from the sale of shares of NII Holdings common stock in the third quarter 2005, and the receipt of $200 million from the sale of the Long Distance conferencing business in the second quarter 2005. The $200 million received from Virgin Mobile in the third quarter 2005 is reflected in the distribution from affiliates activity. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities totaled $1.2 billion in 2005 compared to $680 million in 2004. Debt related financing activities consisted of the retirement of almost $1.2 billion of senior notes and capital lease obligations and the retirement of a $2.2 billion term loan and a $1.0 billion revolving credit loan with a new $3.2 billion term loan. Financing activities for 2005 also include $432 million in proceeds from common stock issuances, primarily resulting from exercises of employee stock options. Proceeds from common stock issuances of $1.9 billion in 2004 were mainly from the settlement of equity unit forward contracts. We paid cash dividends of $525 million in 2005 compared with $670 million in 2004. The decrease in cash dividends paid is due to a decrease in the dividend rate in the third quarter 2005 to 2.5 cents per share from 12.5 cents per share in prior quarters. This was partially offset by an increase in the number of shares of common stock outstanding in 2005, primarily as a result of the Nextel merger, compared to 2004. Capital Requirements, Contractual Obligations and Funding Sources Capital Requirements We currently anticipate that future funding needs in the near term will principally relate to: operating expenses relating to our networks; capital expenditures, particularly with respect to the expansion of the coverage and capacity of our wireless networks and the deployment of new technologies in those networks; interest and scheduled principal payments related to our debt and any purchases or redemptions of our debt or other securities; dividend payments as declared by our board of directors, which we plan to continue following the spin off of Embarq; amounts required to fund pending acquisition transactions, including the purchase of all outstanding shares of common stock of Nextel Partners that we do not own for about $6.5 billion; amounts required to be expended in connection with the FCCs Report and Order, and other potential investments in new business opportunities and spectrum purchases; 66 potential costs of compliance with regulatory mandates, including E911; and other general corporate expenditures. Future Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our best estimates as to the amounts and timing of contractual payments for our most significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005. The information in the table reflects future unconditional payments and is based upon, among other things, the terms of the relevant agreements, appropriate classification of items under GAAP currently in effect and certain assumptions, such as future interest rates. Future events, including additional purchases of our securities and refinancing of those securities, could cause actual payments to differ significantly from these amounts. See Forward Looking Statements. Future Contractual Obligations Total 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and Thereafter (in millions) Long term debt(1) (2) $ 42,393 $ 6,595 $ 3,053 $ 2,719 $ 1,867 $ 1,969 $ 26,190 Redeemable preferred stock(3) 266 7 7 252 Capital leases 207 112 12 18 6 6 53 Operating leases 16,379 1,475 1,423 1,325 1,237 1,105 9,814 Acquisitions(4)(5) 10,178 10,178 Purchase obligations and other 8,090 2,428 1,886 1,413 1,181 604 578 Total $ 77,513 $ 20,795 $ 6,381 $ 5,727 $ 4,291 $ 3,684 $ 36,635 (1) Includes principal maturities and estimated interest payments for the bank credit facility based on managements expectation as to future interest rates, assume the current payment schedule and exclude any additional drawdown under the revolving loan commitment. (2) Includes the effect of our fourth quarter 2005 decision to defease and redeem the entire outstanding aggregate principal amount of our 9.5% senior notes. (3) Amounts do not reflect the impact of our February 28, 2006 notice to redeem our Seventh series preferred stock, which we expect to take place on March 31, 2006. (4) Includes amounts that we are required to pay to purchase the remaining equity interest in Nextel Partners that we do not currently own, including amounts payable upon conversion of debt securities and upon settlement of options; as of December 31, 2005, we held approximately 30% of the common stock equity interest in Nextel Partners. Amounts do not include any debt to be assumed as part of this transaction. (5) Includes obligations related to our 2006 acquisitions of Alamosa, Enterprise Communications and Velocita that we announced in the fourth quarter 2005. Amounts associated with our Alamosa acquisition do not include any debt assumed as part of the transaction. The table above does not include the costs to be paid in connection with the Report and Order over the next approximately two and one half years. The total minimum cash obligation is approximately $2.8 billion. Costs incurred under the Report and Order associated with the reconfiguration of the 800 MHz band may be applied against the $2.8 billion obligation, subject to approval by the Transition Administrator under the Report and Order. In addition, costs associated with the reconfiguration of the 1.9 GHz spectrum are not fully approved for credit until the completion of the entire reconfiguration process. Because the final reconciliation and audit of the entire reconfiguration obligation outlined in the Report and Order will not take place until after the completion of all aspects of the reconfiguration process, there can be no assurance that we will be given full credit for the expenditures that we have incurred under the Report and Order. Additionally, since we, the Transition Administrator and the FCC have not yet reached an agreement on our methodology for calculating certain amounts of property, plant and equipment to be submitted for credit, we cannot provide assurance that we will be granted full credit for certain of these network costs. As of December 31, 2005, we had incurred, on a cash basis, approximately $338 million of costs under the Report and Order. 67 The above table excludes amounts that may be paid or will be paid in connection with spectrum acquisitions. We have committed, subject to certain conditions, which may not be met, to pay up to about $393 million for pending spectrum acquisitions. In addition, we had about $5 billion of open purchase orders for goods or services as of December 31, 2005 that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, but were not recorded as liabilities as of December 31, 2005 or included in the table above. We expect substantially all of these commitments to become due in the next twelve months. Included in the Purchase obligations and other caption are minimum amounts due under some of our service contracts, including agreements for telecommunications and customer billing services, advertising services and contracts related to information technology and customer care outsourcing arrangements. Amounts actually paid under some of these other agreements will likely be higher due to variable components of these agreements. The more significant variable components that determine the ultimate obligation owed include items such as hours contracted, subscribers, and other factors. In addition, we are party to various arrangements that are conditional in nature and create an obligation to make payments only upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the delivery of functioning software or products. Because it is not possible to predict the timing or amounts that may be due under these conditional arrangements, no such amounts have been included in the table above. Expected pension contributions are disclosed in note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K and have not been included in unconditional purchase obligations. Funding Sources As of December 31, 2005, our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $10.7 billion. We have two credit agreements, each with a syndicate of banks. The first, a $9.2 billion unsecured credit agreement entered into in December 2005, is comprised of a 5 year $6.0 billion revolving credit facility and a 364 day $3.2 billion term loan. The full $3.2 billion term loan was borrowed at closing and used to refinance an existing Nextel credit facility. As of December 31, 2005, about $2.5 billion of letters of credit are outstanding under the new $6.0 billion revolving credit facility. As a result, approximately $3.5 billion is available under the new facility. The second credit agreement is a $1.0 billion unsecured facility, structured as a 364 day revolving credit facility expiring in June 2006, with a subsequent one year, $1.0 billion term out option, none of which has been drawn. The credit agreements described above provide for interest rates equal to the LIBOR or the prime rate plus a spread that varies depending on the applicable borrowers or guarantors credit ratings. None of these facilities includes rating triggers that would allow the lenders involved to terminate the facilities in the event of a credit rating downgrade. We had letters of credit of $125 million as of December 31, 2005, in addition to the $2.5 billion letter of credit related to the Report and Order. As of December 31, 2005, we were in compliance with all debt covenants, including all financial ratio tests, associated with our borrowings. Our ability to fund our capital needs is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the bank and securities markets. Given the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely and take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable capital structure cost. Off Balance Sheet Financing We do not participate in, or secure, financings for any unconsolidated, special purpose entities. We do have bankruptcy remote entities that are included in our accompanying consolidated financial statements. 68 Future Outlook We expect to be able to meet our currently identified funding needs for at least the next 12 months by using our anticipated cash flows from operating activities as well as our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable debt securities on hand; cash expected to be received by us in connection with the spin off of Embarq; and or cash available under our existing credit facilities. In making this assessment, we have considered: anticipated levels of capital expenditures; obligations related to pending acquisition transactions, including the outstanding shares of common stock of Nextel Partners that we do not own for about $6.5 billion; anticipated payments under the FCCs Report and Order; declared and anticipated dividend payments and scheduled debt service requirements; costs associated with the Sprint Nextel merger and spin off of Embarq; and other future contractual obligations. If there are material changes in our business plans, or currently prevailing or anticipated economic conditions in any of our markets or competitive practices in the mobile wireless telecommunications industry, or if other presently unexpected circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow or profitability, anticipated cash needs could change significantly. The conclusion that we expect to meet our funding needs for at least the next 12 months as described above does not take into account: any significant acquisition transactions or the pursuit of any significant new business opportunities or spectrum other than those currently being pursued by us; potential material purchases or redemptions of our outstanding debt and equity securities for cash; and potential material increases in the cost of compliance with regulatory mandates, including regulations related to E911 service. Any of these events or circumstances could involve significant additional funding needs in excess of anticipated cash flows from operating activities and the identified currently available funding sources, including existing cash on hand, borrowings available under existing credit facilities and funding anticipated to be received in connection with the spin off of the local telecommunications business. If existing capital resources are not sufficient to meet these funding needs, it would be necessary to raise additional capital to meet those needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if necessary, is subject to a variety of additional factors that cannot currently be predicted with certainty, including: the commercial success of our operations; the volatility and demand of the capital markets; 69 the market prices of our securities; and tax law restrictions related to the spin off of Embarq that may limit our ability to raise capital from the sale of our equity securities. We have in the past and may in the future have discussions with third parties regarding potential sources of new capital to satisfy actual or anticipated financing needs. At present, other than the existing arrangements that have been consummated or are described in this report, we have no legally binding commitments or understandings with any third parties to obtain any material amount of additional capital. The entirety of the above discussion is subject to the risks and other cautionary and qualifying factors set forth under Forward Looking Statements and Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Financial Strategies General Risk Management Policies We use derivative instruments only for hedging and risk management purposes. Hedging activity may be done for purposes of mitigating the risks associated with an asset, liability, committed transaction or probable forecasted transaction. We seek to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, the selection of only the most creditworthy counterparties, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. We also control exposure to market risk by regularly monitoring changes in hedge positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits. Our board of directors has authorized us to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with our risk management policies. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instrument for speculative purposes. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We are primarily exposed to the market risk associated with unfavorable movements in interest rates, foreign currencies, and equity prices. The risk inherent in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in those factors. Interest Rate Risk The communications industry is a capital intensive, technology driven business. We are subject to interest rate risk primarily associated with our borrowings. Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. Specific interest rate risk include: the risk of increasing interest rates on short term debt; the risk of increasing interest rates for planned new fixed rate long term financings; and the risk of increasing interest rates for planned refinancing using long term fixed rate debt. Cash Flow Hedges We enter into interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the impact of interest rate movements on future interest expense by effectively converting a portion of our floating rate debt to a fixed rate. As of December 31, 2005, we had no outstanding interest rate cash flow hedges. Fair Value Hedges We enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage exposure to interest rate movements and achieve an optimal mixture of floating and fixed rate debt while minimizing liquidity risk. The interest rate swap agreements 70 designated as fair value hedges effectively convert our fixed rate debt to a floating rate by receiving fixed rate amounts in exchange for floating rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. As of December 31, 2005, we had outstanding interest rate swap agreements that were designated as fair value hedges. Approximately 80% of our debt as of December 31, 2005 was fixed rate debt excluding interest rate swaps. While changes in interest rates impact the fair value of this debt, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows because we intend to hold these obligations to maturity unless market and other conditions are favorable. As of December 31, 2005, we held fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1 billion. These swaps were entered into as hedges of the fair value of a portion of our senior notes. These interest rate swaps have maturities ranging from 2008 to 2012. On a semiannual basis, we pay a floating rate of interest equal to the six month LIBOR plus a fixed spread and receive an average interest rate equal to the coupon rates stated on the underlying senior notes. On December 31, 2005, the rate we would pay averaged 7.0% and the rate we would receive was 7.2%. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the prevailing forward yield curve, the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the underlying senior notes would change by $36 million. These interest rate swaps met all the requirements for perfect effectiveness under derivative accounting rules as all of the critical terms of the swaps perfectly matched the corresponding terms of the hedged debt; therefore, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows for any fair value fluctuations. We perform interest rate sensitivity analyses on our variable rate debt including interest rate swaps. These analyses indicate that a one percentage point change in interest rates would have an annual pre tax impact of $45 million on our statements of operations and cash flows as of December 31, 2005. While our variable rate debt may impact earnings and cash flows as interest rates change, it is not subject to changes in fair values. We also perform a sensitivity analysis on the fair market value of our outstanding debt. A 10% decline in market interest rates would cause a $987 million increase in fair market value of our debt to $29 billion. This analysis includes the hedged debt. We have entered into a series of interest rate collars associated with the anticipated issuance of debt by Embarq at the time of its expected spin off in 2006. These collars have been designated as cash flow hedges in Embarqs financial statements against the variability in interest payments that would result from a change in interest rates before the debt is issued at the time of spin off. However, because the forecasted interest payments of debt will occur after the subsidiary is spun off, the derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in our consolidated financial statements, and so any changes in the fair value of these instruments are recognized in earnings during the period of change. Based on market prices on December 31, 2005, a one percentage point change in interest rates would result in a decrease in the fair value of these instruments by approximately $179 million. Foreign Currency Risk We also enter into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Our foreign exchange risk management program focuses on reducing transaction exposure to optimize consolidated cash flow. We use foreign currency derivatives to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to settlement of international telecommunications access charges and the operation of our international subsidiaries. The dollar equivalent of our net foreign currency payables from international settlements was $20 million and net foreign currency receivables from international operations was $24 million as of December 31, 2005. The potential immediate pre tax loss to us that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates based on these positions would be less than $1 million. Equity Risk We are exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our investments. We invest in equity instruments of public and private companies for operational and strategic business purposes. These securities are 71 subject to significant fluctuations in fair market value due to volatility of the stock market and industries in which the companies operate. These securities, which are classified in investments and marketable securities on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets, include equity method investments, investments in private securities, available for sale securities and equity derivative instruments. We entered into a series of option contracts associated with our investment in NII Holdings in order to hedge the price risk associated with this security. The first of these contracts did not qualify for hedge accounting and the changes in fair value of the derivative instrument are recognized in earnings during the period of change. Based on these contracts and market prices on December 31, 2005, a 10% increase or decrease in NII Holdings market price would result in a decrease or increase of approximately $7 million. Changes in the market price will also affect the fair value of our holdings in NII Holdings; however, we will not recognize such gains or losses unless the investment is sold. See note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K for further detail of these derivative instruments. In certain business transactions, we are granted warrants to purchase the securities of other companies at fixed rates. These warrants are supplemental to the terms of the business transaction and are not designated as hedging instruments. During 2002 and 2003, we entered into variable prepaid forward contracts to monetize equity securities held as available for sale. The derivatives have been designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the variability in expected cash flows related to the forecasted sale of the underlying equity securities. These prepaid contracts were settled between the fourth quarter 2004 and fourth quarter 2005. 
 
