Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward Looking Statements We include certain estimates, projections and other forward looking statements in our annual, quarterly and current reports, and in other publicly available material. Statements regarding expectations, including performance assumptions and estimates relating to capital requirements, as well as other statements that are not historical facts, are forward looking statements. These statements reflect managements judgments based on currently available information and involve a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. With respect to these forward looking statements, management has made assumptions regarding, among other things, customer and network usage, customer growth and retention, pricing, operating costs, the timing of various events and the economic environment. Future performance cannot be assured. Actual results may differ materially from those in the forward looking statements. Some factors that could cause actual results to differ include: the effects of vigorous competition, including the impact of competition on the price we are able to charge customers for services we provide and our ability to attract new customers and retain existing 33 customers; the overall demand for our service offerings, including the impact of decisions of new subscribers between our post paid and prepaid services offerings and between our two network platforms; and the impact of new, emerging and competing technologies on our business; the impact of overall wireless market penetration on our ability to attract and retain customers with good credit standing and the intensified competition among wireless carriers for those customers; the potential impact of difficulties we may encounter in connection with the integration of the pre merger Sprint and Nextel businesses, and the integration of the businesses and assets of certain of the third party affiliates, or PCS Affiliates, that provide wireless personal communications services, or PCS, under the Sprint brand that we have acquired, and Nextel Partners, Inc., including the risk that these difficulties could prevent or delay our realization of the cost savings and other benefits we expect to achieve as a result of these integration efforts and the risk that we will be unable to continue to retain key employees; the uncertainties related to the implementation of our business strategies, investments in our networks, our systems, and other businesses, including investments required in connection with our planned deployment of a next generation broadband wireless network; the costs and business risks associated with providing new services and entering new geographic markets, including with respect to our development of new services expected to be provided using the next generation broadband wireless network that we plan to deploy; the impact of potential adverse changes in the ratings afforded our debt securities by ratings agencies; the effects of mergers and consolidations and new entrants in the communications industry and unexpected announcements or developments from others in the communications industry; unexpected results of litigation filed against us; the inability of third parties to perform to our requirements under agreements related to our business operations, including a significant adverse change in Motorola, Inc.s ability or willingness to provide handsets and related equipment and software applications, or to develop new technologies or features for our integrated Digital Enhanced Network, or iDEN, network; the impact of adverse network performance; the costs of compliance with regulatory mandates, particularly requirements related to the Federal Communications Commissions, or FCCs, Report and Order; equipment failure, natural disasters, terrorist acts, or other breaches of network or information technology security; one or more of the markets in which we compete being impacted by changes in political or other factors such as monetary policy, legal and regulatory changes or other external factors over which we have no control; and other risks referenced from time to time in this report and other filings of ours with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, including Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors. The words may, could, estimate, project, forecast, intend, expect, believe, target, providing guidance and similar expressions are intended to identify forward looking statements. Forward looking statements are found throughout this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere in this report. The reader should not place undue reliance on forward looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We are not obligated to publicly release any revisions to forward looking statements to reflect events after the date of this report, including unforeseen events. 34 Overview We are a global communications company offering a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of individual consumers, businesses and government customers. We have organized our operations to meet the needs of our targeted customer groups through focused communications solutions that incorporate the capabilities of our wireless and wireline services to meet their specific needs. We are one of the three largest wireless companies in the United States based on the number of wireless subscribers. We own extensive wireless networks and a global long distance, Tier 1 Internet backbone. Nextel Merger and Local Communications Business Spin off On August 12, 2005, a subsidiary of our company merged with Nextel Communications, Inc. and, as a result, we acquired Nextel. We merged with Nextel to secure a number of potential strategic and financial benefits, including those arising from the combination of our networks, spectrum assets, and diverse customer bases and services, the size and scale of the combined company and the opportunity to focus on the fastest growing areas of the communications industry. We also believe that the merger provides significant opportunities to achieve operating efficiencies by realizing revenue, operating cost and capital spending synergies. We have begun to realize cost savings and other synergies as a result of the merger and over a number of years expect to continue to realize significant cost savings and other synergies associated with the merger. However, we believe that our operating results for at least the next several quarters will be impacted negatively by costs that will be incurred to achieve these benefits and other synergies. Such costs are generally not expected to be recurring in nature, and include costs associated with integrating back office systems, severance costs associated with the termination of the employment of certain employees, and lease and other contract termination costs. The merger and integration costs that we incur will be dependent on a number of business or strategic decisions whose timing cannot be predicted with certainty, which could cause merger and integration costs, and our realization of benefits from the merger and integration efforts, to vary from period to period. The ability to achieve these cost savings and other synergies and the timing in which the benefits can be realized will depend in large part on the ability to integrate our networks, business operations, back office functions and other support systems and infrastructure. At the time that we announced the merger, we also announced our plans to spin off to our shareholders our local communications business, which is now known as Embarq Corporation and is comprised primarily of what was our Local segment prior to the spin off. We completed the spin off on May 17, 2006. In the spin off, we distributed pro rata to our shareholders one Embarq common share for every 20 shares of our voting and non voting common stock, or about 149 million shares of Embarq common stock, and received net cash consideration and net proceeds from the sale of Embarq senior notes totaling about $6.3 billion. Cash was paid for fractional shares. As a result of the spin off, we no longer own any shares of Embarq. The results of Embarq for periods prior to the spin off are presented as discontinued operations. We received a ruling from the Internal Revenue Service that, based on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings set forth in the ruling, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution of Embarq common shares is not taxable to us or U.S. holders of our common shares, except cash payments made in lieu of fractional shares, which generally are taxable. Business We offer a comprehensive range of wireless and wireline communications products and services that are designed to meet the needs of individual consumers, businesses and government customers. We conduct our operations through two segments referred to as Wireless and Long Distance. We, together with the PCS Affiliates, offer digital wireless services in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands under the Sprint brand name utilizing wireless code division multiple access, or CDMA, technology. The PCS Affiliates, through commercial arrangements with us, provide wireless services mainly in and around smaller U.S. metropolitan areas on wireless networks built and operated at their expense, in most 35 instances using spectrum licensed to and controlled by us. During 2005, we acquired three PCS Affiliates and in 2006 we acquired three additional PCS Affiliates. We also offer digital wireless services under the Nextel and Boost brand names using iDEN technology. During 2006, we acquired Nextel Partners which provides digital wireless communications services under the Nextel brand name in certain mid sized and tertiary U.S. markets. The acquisitions of these PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners gave us more control of the distribution of services under our Sprint and Nextel brands, and provide us with the strategic and financial benefits associated with a larger customer base and expanded network coverage. We also are one of the largest providers of long distance services and one of the largest carriers of Internet traffic in the nation. We believe the communications industry has been and will continue to be highly competitive on the basis of price, the types of services offered and quality of service. Although we believe that many of our targeted customers base their purchase decisions on quality of service and the availability of differentiated features and services, competitive pricing, both in terms of the monthly recurring charges and the number of minutes or other features available under a particular rate plan, and handset offerings are often important factors in potential customers purchase decisions. Our industry has been and continues to be subject to consolidation and dynamic change as well as intense competition. To maintain our operating margins in a price competitive environment, we continually seek ways to create or improve capital and operating efficiencies in our business. Consequently, we routinely reassess our business strategies and their implications on our operations, and these assessments may continue to impact the future valuation of our long lived assets. As part of our overall business strategy, we regularly evaluate opportunities to expand and complement our business and may at any time be discussing or negotiating a transaction that, if consummated, could have a material effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. The FCC regulates the licensing, operation, acquisition and sale of the licensed radio spectrum that is essential to our business. The FCC and state Public Utilities Commissions, or PUCs, also regulate the provision of communications services. Future changes in regulations or legislation related to spectrum licensing or other matters related to our business could impose significant additional costs on us either in the form of direct out of pocket costs or additional compliance obligations. Management Overview Wireless We offer a wide array of wireless mobile telephone and wireless data transmission services on networks that utilize CDMA and iDEN technologies to meet the needs of individual consumers, businesses and government customers. Through our Wireless segment, we, together with the four remaining PCS Affiliates, offer digital wireless service in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and provide wireless coverage in over 300 metropolitan markets, including 297 of the 300 largest U.S. metropolitan areas, where more than 280 million people live or work. We offer wireless international voice roaming for subscribers of both CDMA and iDEN based services in numerous countries. We, together with the PCS Affiliates and resellers of our wholesale wireless services, served about 53.1 million wireless subscribers at the end of 2006. We offer wireless mobile telephone and data transmission services and features in a variety of pricing plans, including prepaid service plans. We offer these services, other than those offered under prepaid service plans, typically on a contract basis, for one or two year periods, with services billed on a monthly basis according to the applicable pricing plan. We market our prepaid services under the Boost Mobile brand, as a means to directly target the youth and prepaid wireless service markets. We also offer wholesale wireless services to resellers, commonly known as mobile virtual network operators, or MVNOs, such as Embarq, Modiva Communications, Inc., Helio Inc., Qwest Communications International, Inc., The Walt Disney Company and Virgin Mobile USA, which purchase wireless services from us at wholesale rates and resell the services to their customers under their own brand names. Under these MVNO arrangements, the operators bear the costs of acquisition, billing and customer service. 36 We also provide wireless services that are marketed and sold by several cable multiple systems operators, or MSOs, in four markets. We also have entered into an agreement with several cable MSOs to jointly develop converged services designed to combine many of cables core products and interactive features with wireless technology to deliver a broad range of services, including video, wireless voice and data services, high speed Internet and cable phone service, to the participating cable MSOs customers. During 2007, we expect to develop new products and services and introduce service in additional markets. Our strategy is to utilize state of the art technology to provide differentiated wireless services and applications in order to acquire and retain high quality wireless subscribers. We offer numerous sophisticated data messaging, imaging, entertainment and location based applications, marketed as Power VisionSM, across our CDMA network that utilize high speed evolution data optimized, or EV DO, technology. Currently EV DO technology covers nearly 209 million people and serves customers in over 219 communities with populations of at least 100,000. EV DO data roaming is available in selected markets in Canada and Mexico. We also have begun to incorporate EV DO Rev. A, the next version of EV DO technology, into our network, with plans for coverage across the majority of the footprint of our CDMA network by the end of 2007. EV DO Rev. A is designed to support a variety of Internet Protocol, or IP, and video and high performance walkie talkie applications for our CDMA network. On our iDEN network, we continue to support features and services that are designed to meet the needs of our customers. Both the Nextel and Boost Mobile brands feature our industry leading walkie talkie services, which give subscribers the ability to communicate instantly across the continental United States and to and from Hawaii and, through agreements with other iDEN providers, to and from selected markets in Canada, Latin America and Mexico, as well as a variety of digital wireless mobile telephone and wireless data transmission services. In recent periods, we have experienced declines in the number of new subscribers for our wireless services and increases in our rate of subscriber churn. Customer satisfaction and churn have been adversely impacted by capacity constraints on our iDEN network as a result of a number of factors, including the addition to the network in recent years of many high call volume subscribers, limited effectiveness of the 6:1 voice coder upgrade in the iDEN technology that was designed to increase network capacity, and the impact of the reconfiguration process under the Report and Order. In certain of our most capacity constrained markets, we have had to take actions to limit the acquisition of new subscribers of Nextel and Boost Mobile branded services. Also, churn of subscribers of our CDMA services remains high relative to our competitors, in large part due to credit related deactivations. In 2006, we reorganized our sales and distribution and customer management operations to improve customer satisfaction, adopted a regional sales, service, and distribution structure to streamline operations, increase productivity and move decision making closer to the customer, and tightened our credit policies for new subscribers of both CDMA and iDEN services. In 2007, we: are adding cell sites to improve network performance and expand the coverage and capacity of our networks; are increasing media expenditures to improve brand awareness; have enhanced incentives to improve third party sales distribution and accelerate growth, and are implementing customer retention programs that focus on our high value customers; are adjusting our credit policies on a market by market basis in an effort to optimize the balance between new subscribers who are of a prime and sub prime quality; are improving our handset portfolio across both our CDMA and iDEN network platforms; are helping to relieve capacity constraints on the iDEN network and to offer subscribers of our iDEN services all of the benefits of applications on our CDMA network and our walkie talkie applications, by offering a new line of combined CDMA iDEN devices, marketed as PowerSourceTM, that feature voice and data applications over our CDMA network and walkie talkie applications over our iDEN network and we are expecting to introduce PowerSource devices that also feature our Power Vision data applications over our CDMA network; and 37 expect to substantially complete the integration of a number of other systems, including human resources, general ledger, sales commissions and billing. We believe that integration of these systems onto single platforms will create efficiencies in the way we do business, and in the case of our billing system, will increase functionality for our customer care representatives and produce more reliable information, which should enhance the customer experience. We have completed various phases of our systems and processes consolidation plan in the fourth quarter 2006 as discussed in Part II, Item 9A, Controls and Procedures. In the future, we also plan to utilize QUALCOMM Incorporateds QChat technology, which is designed to provide high performance walkie talkie services on our CDMA network, and we are designing interfaces to provide for interoperability of walkie talkie services on our CDMA and iDEN networks. We also plan to deploy a next generation broadband wireless network that will be designed to provide significantly higher data transport speeds using our spectrum holdings in the 2.5 gigahertz, or GHz, band and technology based on the Worldwide Inter Operability for Microwave Access, or WiMAX, standard. We are designing this network to support a wide range of high speed IP based wireless services. Our initial plans contemplate deploying the new network in larger metropolitan areas with a goal of launching the related service offerings in some of those markets beginning in 2008. Our Wireless segment generates revenues from the provision of wireless services, the sale of wireless equipment and the provision of wholesale and other services. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate service revenues is primarily a function of: the number of subscribers that we serve, which in turn is a function of our ability to acquire new and retain existing subscribers; and the revenue generated by each subscriber, which in turn is a function of the types and amount of services utilized by each subscriber and the rates that we charge for those services. We believe that wireless carriers increasingly must attract a greater proportion of new customers from the existing customer bases of competitors rather than from first time purchasers of wireless services. For example, we are experiencing increased competition in our prepaid and youth markets from new entrants that are targeting these subscribers. Certain of our competitors continue to increase their focus on customer retention efforts and have reported improvements in their customer retention rates, which may make it harder for us to acquire new customers from these competitors. In addition, the higher market penetration of wireless services in our markets may suggest that customers purchasing wireless services for the first time may, on average, have a lower credit rating than existing wireless users, which generally results in both a higher churn rate due to involuntary churn and in higher bad debt expense. This has intensified the competition among wireless carriers to attract higher quality customers with stronger credit standing, resulting in aggressive pricing strategies for both voice services and other features that are designed to attract those customers. We have also experienced declines in the average voice revenue per subscriber due to our offering more competitive service pricing plans, including lower priced plans, such as business essentials and plans that allow users to add additional units to their plans at attractive rates. We are developing and implementing service plans that are designed to offset these declines in voice revenue by expanding and enhancing our value added array of imaging, high speed data messaging, entertainment and location based applications. Recently, the growth in revenue per subscriber generated by these data services, while significant, has not kept pace with the decline in voice revenue, resulting in a decline in our overall monthly average revenue per subscriber. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate equipment revenues is primarily a function of the number of new and existing subscribers who purchase handsets and other accessories. The ability of our Wireless segment to generate wholesale revenues is primarily a function of the number and type of MVNOs that resell our wireless service and the rates that we charge MVNOs for utilization of our network. Although many of the costs relating to the operation of our wireless networks are fixed in the short term, other costs, such as interconnection fees, fluctuate based on the utilization of the networks. Sales and marketing 38 expenses are dependent on the number of subscriber additions and the nature and extent of our marketing and promotional activities. Customer care costs are dependent on the number of subscribers that we serve and the nature of programs designed to serve and retain subscribers. General and administrative expenses consist of fees paid for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense, customer retention and back office support activities, including collections, legal, finance, human resources, strategic planning and technology and product development, along with the related payroll and facilities costs. Although our goal is to improve operating margins through cost savings initiatives and benefits of scale, costs that fluctuate based on network utilization and the number of subscribers that we serve and costs associated with enhancing and expanding the coverage of our network generally will increase in absolute terms over time. We also seek to realize operating efficiencies in our business from merger related cost savings and other synergies. In February 2005, Nextel accepted the terms and conditions of the Report and Order, which implemented a spectrum reconfiguration plan designed to eliminate interference with public safety operators in the 800 MHz band. Under the terms of the Report and Order, Nextel surrendered certain spectrum rights and received certain other spectrum rights, and undertook to pay the costs incurred by Nextel and third parties in connection with the reconfiguration plan, which is required to be completed within a 36 month period, subject to certain exceptions particularly with respect to markets that border Mexico and Canada. We assumed these obligations when we merged with Nextel in August 2005. If, as a result of events within our control, we fail to complete the reconfiguration plan within the 36 month period, the FCC could take actions against us to enforce the Report and Order. These actions could have adverse operating or financial impacts on us, some of which could be material. We believe that, based on our experiences to date, we will not complete the reconfiguration process within the 36 month period due to events largely outside of our control. We do not believe at this time that the impact from this delay will be material to our results of operation or financial condition, although there can be no assurance. Recognizing the current limitations in the reconfiguration process, both Sprint Nextel and the public safety community jointly filed a letter with the FCC on February 15, 2007 requesting that the FCC direct the Transition Administrator, through working closely with the affected parties, to develop a schedule and benchmarks for completing the second phase of the 800 MHz reconfiguration. See Forward Looking Statements. As part of the reconfiguration process in most markets, we must cease using portions of the surrendered 800 MHz spectrum before we are able to commence use of replacement 800 MHz spectrum, which has contributed to the capacity constraints experienced on our iDEN network, particularly in some of our more capacity constrained markets, and has impacted performance of our iDEN network in the affected markets. Based on the FCCs determination of the values of the spectrum rights received and surrendered by Nextel, the minimum obligation to be incurred under the Report and Order is $2.8 billion. The Report and Order also provides that qualifying costs we incur as part of the reconfiguration plan, including costs to reconfigure our own infrastructure and spectrum positions, can be used to offset the minimum obligation of $2.8 billion; however, we are obligated to pay the full amount of the costs relating to the reconfiguration plan, even if those costs exceed that amount. In addition, a financial reconciliation is required to be completed at the end of the reconfiguration implementation, at which time we will be required to make a payment to the U.S. Treasury to the extent that the value of the spectrum rights received exceeds the total of (i) the value of spectrum rights that are surrendered and (ii) the qualifying costs referred to above. As a result of the uncertainty with regard to the calculation of the credit for our internal network costs, as well as the significant number of variables outside of our control, particularly with regard to the 800 MHz reconfiguration licensee costs, we do not believe that we can reasonably estimate what amount, if any, will be paid to the U.S. Treasury. As required under the terms of the Report and Order, we delivered a $2.5 billion letter of credit to provide assurance that funds will be available to pay the relocation costs of the incumbent users of the 800 MHz spectrum. Although the Report and Order provides for the possibility of periodic reductions in the amount of the letter of credit, no reductions have been made as of December 31, 2006. 39 Long Distance Through our Long Distance segment, we provide a broad suite of wireline voice and data communications services targeted to domestic business customers, multinational corporations and other communications companies. These services include domestic and international data communications using various protocols, such as multi protocol label switching, or MPLS, technologies, Internet Protocol, or IP, asynchronous transfer mode, or ATM, frame relay, managed network services and voice services. We also provide services to the cable MSOs that resell our long distance service and or use our back office systems and network assets in support of their telephone service provided over cable facilities primarily to residential end user customers. We are one of the nations largest providers of long distance services and operate all digital long distance and Tier 1 IP networks. For several years, our long distance voice services have experienced an industry wide trend of lower revenue from lower prices and competition from other wireline and wireless communications companies, as well as cable MSOs and Internet service providers. Growth in voice services provided by cable MSOs is accelerating as consumers use cable MSOs as alternatives to local and long distance voice communications providers. We continue to assess the portfolio of services provided by our Long Distance segment and are focusing our efforts on IP based services and de emphasizing stand alone voice services and non IP based data services. For example, in addition to increased emphasis on selling IP services, we are converting many of our existing customers from ATM and frame relay to more advanced IP technologies, in part to support our effort to move to one platform, which will reduce our cost structure. Over time, this conversion is expected to result in decreases in revenue from frame relay and ATM service offset by increases in IP and MPLS services. We also are taking advantage of the growth in voice services provided by cable MSOs, by providing large cable MSOs with long distance voice communications service, which they offer as part of their bundled service offerings. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We consider the following accounting policies and estimates to be the most important to our financial position and results of operations, either because of the significance of the financial statement item or because they require the exercise of significant judgment and or use of significant estimates. While management believes that the estimates used are reasonable, actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Policies Operating revenues primarily consist of wireless service revenues, revenues generated from handset and accessory sales and revenues from wholesale operators and PCS Affiliates, as well as long distance voice, data and Internet revenues. Service revenues consist of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges and miscellaneous fees, such as activation fees, directory assistance, operator assisted calling, equipment protection, late payment charges and certain regulatory related fees. We recognize service revenues as services are rendered and equipment revenue when title passes to the dealer or end user customer, in accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 104, Revenue Recognition, and Emerging Issues Task Force, or EITF, Issue No. 00 21, Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables. We recognize revenue for access charges and other services charged at fixed amounts ratably over the service period, net of credits and adjustments for service discounts, billing disputes and fraud or unauthorized usage. We recognize excess wireless usage and long distance revenue at contractual rates per minute as minutes are used. Additionally, we recognize excess wireless data usage based on kilobytes and one time use charges, such as for the use of premium services, as incurred. As a result of the cutoff times of our multiple billing cycles each month, we are required to estimate the amount of subscriber revenues earned but not billed from the end of each billing cycle to the end of each reporting period. These estimates are based primarily on rate plans in effect and our historical usage and billing patterns and represented about 13% of our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2006. Certain of our bundled products and services, primarily in our Wireless segment, are considered to be revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables. Total consideration received in these arrangements is allocated and measured using units of accounting within the arrangement (i.e., service and handset contracts) based on relative fair values. The activation fee revenue associated with these arrangements in our direct sales channels 40 is recognized as equipment sales at the time the related handset is sold. For our indirect sales channels, the activation fee is solely linked to the service contract with the subscriber. Accordingly, the activation fee revenue is deferred and amortized over the estimated average service life of the end user customer, and is classified as service revenue. We establish an allowance for doubtful accounts receivable sufficient to cover probable and reasonably estimable losses. Because of the number of accounts that we have, it is not practical to review the collectibility of each of those accounts individually when we determine the amount of our allowance for doubtful accounts each period, although we do perform some account level analysis with respect to long distance customers. Our estimate of the allowance for doubtful accounts considers a number of factors, including collection experience, current economic trends, estimates of forecasted write offs, aging of the accounts receivable portfolios, industry norms, regulatory decisions and other factors. If our allowance for doubtful accounts estimate at December 31, 2006 were to change by 10%, it would represent a change in bad debt expense of $39 million for the Wireless segment and $3 million for the Long Distance segment. The accounting estimates related to the recognition of revenue in the results of operations require us to make assumptions about future billing adjustments for disputes with customers, unauthorized usage and future returns on handset sales. The allowance amounts recorded, in each instance, represent our best estimate of future outcomes, but the actual outcomes could differ from the estimate selected, and the impact that changes in our actual performance versus these amounts recorded would have on the accounts receivable reported on our balance sheet and our results of operations could be material to our financial condition. Inventories Inventories of handsets and accessories in the Wireless segment and inventories in the Long Distance segment are stated at the lower of cost or market. We determine cost by the first in, first out, or FIFO, method. Handset costs in excess of the revenues generated from handset sales, or handset subsidies, are expensed at the time of sale. We do not recognize the expected handset subsidies prior to the time of sale because the promotional discount decision is made at the point of sale and or because we expect to recover the handset subsidies through service revenues. As of December 31, 2006, we held about $1.2 billion of inventory. We analyze the realizable value of our handset and other inventory on a quarterly basis. This analysis includes assessing obsolescence, sales forecasts, product life cycle, marketplace and other considerations. If our assessments regarding the above factors change, we may be required to sell handsets at a higher subsidy or potentially record expense in future periods prior to the point of sale to the extent that we expect that we will be unable to sell handsets with a service contract. Valuation and Recoverability of Long lived Assets Including Definite Lived Intangible Assets A significant portion of our total assets are long lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment and definite lived intangible assets. Changes in technology or in our intended use of these assets, as well as changes in economic or industry factors or in our business or prospects, may cause the estimated period of use or the value of these assets to change. Long lived assets consisting of property, plant and equipment represented $25.9 billion of our $97.2 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2006. We generally calculate depreciation on these assets using the straight line method based on estimated economic useful lives as follows: Long lived Assets Estimated Useful Life Average Useful Life Buildings and improvements 3 to 31 years 15 years Network equipment and software 3 to 31 years 9 years Non network internal use software, office equipment and other 3 to 12 years 4 years 41 Since changes in technology or in our intended use of these assets, as well as changes in broad economic or industry factors, may cause the estimated period of use of these assets to change, we perform annual internal studies to confirm the appropriateness of depreciable lives for most categories of property, plant and equipment. These studies utilize models, which take into account actual usage, physical wear and tear, replacement history, and assumptions about technology evolution, to calculate the remaining life of our asset base. When these factors indicate that an assets useful life is different from the original assessment, we depreciate the remaining book values prospectively over the adjusted estimated useful life. If our studies had resulted in a depreciable rate that was 5% higher or lower than those used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2006, recorded depreciation expense would have been impacted by about $300 million. In addition to performing our annual studies, we also continue to assess the estimated useful life of the iDEN network assets, which had a net carrying value of $7.4 billion as of December 31, 2006, and our future strategic plans for this network, as a larger portion of our subscriber base is served by our CDMA network. A reduction in our estimate of the useful life of the iDEN network assets would cause increased depreciation charges in future periods that could be material. We review our long lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining the occurrence of an indicator of impairment that requires an evaluation of the recoverability of our long lived assets. If the total of the expected undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of our assets, a loss, if any, is recognized for the difference between the fair value and carrying value of the assets. Impairment analyses, when performed, are based on our current business and technology strategy, our views of growth rates for our business, anticipated future economic and regulatory conditions and expected technological availability. For software projects that are under development, we periodically assess the probability of deployment into the business to determine if an impairment charge is required. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded $69 million in asset impairment charges primarily related to software asset impairments and abandonments of various assets, including certain cell sites under construction. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we recorded $44 million in asset impairment charges primarily related to the write down of various software applications. In 2004, we determined that business conditions and events impacting our Long Distance operations constituted an indicator of possible impairment requiring an evaluation of the recoverability of the Long Distance long lived assets, which resulted in a non cash asset impairment charge of $3.5 billion, reducing the net carrying value of Long Distance property, plant and equipment by about 60% to $2.3 billion at September 30, 2004. Additionally, we recognized a non cash charge of $21 million in 2004 to adjust the carrying value of our wholesale Dial IP assets to fair value. These impairments represented 54% of Long Distances property, plant and equipment, net and 13% of the consolidated property, plant and equipment, net at December 31, 2003. Intangible assets with definite useful lives represented $9.2 billion of our $97.2 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2006. Definite lived intangible assets consist primarily of customer relationships that are amortized over three to five years using the sum of the years digits method, which we believe best reflects the estimated pattern in which the economic benefits will be consumed. Other definite lived intangible assets primarily include certain rights under affiliation agreements that we reacquired in connection with the acquisitions of the PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners, which are being amortized over the remaining terms of those affiliation agreements on a straight line basis, and the Nextel and Direct ConnectSM trade names, which are being amortized over 10 years from the date of the Sprint Nextel merger on a straight line basis. We continually assess whether any indicators of impairment exist that would trigger a test of any of these definite lived intangible assets, including, but not limited to, a significant decrease in the market price of the asset, cash flows or a significant change in the extent or manner in which the asset is used. In addition, if we ever were required to determine the implied fair value of our goodwill as part of a second step goodwill impairment test, it would result in our evaluating the recorded value of our definite lived intangible assets for impairment. We also evaluate the remaining useful lives of our definite lived intangible assets each reporting period to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of amortization, which would be addressed prospectively. For example, we review certain trends such as customer churn, average revenue per user, revenue, our future plans regarding the iDEN network and changes in 42 marketing strategies, among others. Significant changes in certain trends may cause us to adjust, on a prospective basis, the remaining estimated life of certain of our definite lived intangible assets. Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives represented $50.8 billion of our $97.2 billion in total assets as of December 31, 2006. We have identified FCC licenses and our Sprint and Boost Mobile trademarks as indefinite lived intangible assets, in addition to our goodwill, after considering the expected use of the assets, the regulatory and economic environment within which they are being used, and the effects of obsolescence on their use. We review our goodwill, which relates solely to our wireless reporting unit, and other indefinite lived intangibles annually on October 1 for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. We continually assess whether any indicators of impairment exist. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indicator of impairment has occurred. Such indicators may include, a sustained, significant decline in our share price and market capitalization, changes in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, unanticipated competition, the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit, and or slower growth rates, among others. When required, we first test goodwill for impairment by comparing the fair value of our wireless reporting unit with its carrying amount. If the fair value of the wireless reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill is not deemed to be impaired, and no further testing would be necessary. If the carrying amount of our wireless reporting unit were to exceed its fair value, we would perform a second test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. To measure the amount of any impairment loss, we would determine the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if our wireless reporting unit were being acquired in a business combination. Specifically, we would allocate the fair value of the wireless reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that would yield the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the recorded goodwill, we would record an impairment charge for the difference. When required, we test other indefinite lived intangibles for impairment by comparing the assets respective carrying value to estimates of fair value, determined using the direct value method. Our FCC licenses are combined as a single unit of accounting following the unit of accounting guidance as prescribed by EITF Issue No. 02 7, Unit of Accounting for Testing Impairment of Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets, except for our FCC licenses in the 2.5 GHz band, which are tested separately. The accounting estimates related to our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets require us to make significant assumptions about fair values. Our assumptions regarding fair values require significant judgment about economic factors, industry factors and technology considerations, as well as our views regarding the prospects of our business. Changes in these judgments may have a significant effect on the estimated fair values. During the fourth quarter 2006, we performed our annual goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible asset analyses as described above. The result of these analyses was that our indefinite lived intangible assets were not impaired. As permitted by Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, guidance, our goodwill analysis included an estimate of a control premium with respect to the minority interest traded value of our common shares and an estimate of the value of our long distance business, as well as other assumptions. As of December 31, 2006, we have not identified any indicators of impairment with respect to our goodwill and other indefinite lived intangible assets. However, if our share price were to experience a sustained, significant decline as compared to the share price as of December 31, 2006, or if any other indicator of impairment exists, such as a decline in expected cash flows, we may be required to perform the second step of the goodwill impairment test, which could cause us to recognize a non cash impairment charge that could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Tax Valuation Allowances We are required to estimate the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and the deferred income tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in our 43 consolidated financial statements or tax returns for each taxing jurisdiction in which we operate. This process requires our management to make assessments regarding the timing and probability of the ultimate tax impact. We record valuation allowances on deferred tax assets if we determine it is more likely than not that the asset will not be realized. Additionally, we establish reserves for uncertain tax positions based upon our judgment regarding potential future challenges to those positions. Actual income taxes could vary from these estimates due to future changes in income tax law, significant changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate, our inability to generate sufficient future taxable income or unpredicted results from the final determination of each years liability by taxing authorities. These changes could have a significant impact on our financial position. The accounting estimate related to the tax valuation allowance requires us to make assumptions regarding the timing of future events, including the probability of expected future taxable income and available tax planning opportunities. These assumptions require significant judgment because actual performance has fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. The impact that changes in actual performance versus these estimates could have on the realization of tax benefits as reported in our results of operations could be material. We carried an income tax valuation allowance of $953 million as of December 31, 2006. This amount includes a valuation allowance of $743 million for the total tax benefits related to net operating loss carryforwards, subject to utilization restrictions, acquired in connection with certain acquisitions. The remainder of the valuation allowance relates to capital loss, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Within our total valuation allowance we had $54 million related to separate company state net operating losses incurred by the PCS entities while owned by us. The valuation allowance was provided on these separate company state net operating loss benefits since these entities had no history of taxable income. Current trends indicate that the valuation allowance continues to be appropriate and we do not anticipate adjusting this amount in the near term. We continue to monitor these trends, and in the future it is possible that our cumulative historical test will ultimately yield sufficient positive evidence that it is more likely than not that we will realize the tax benefit of some of the separate company state net operating losses for which the valuation allowance has been provided. Should that occur, subject to review of other qualitative factors and uncertainties at that time, we would expect to start reversing some of the valuation allowance. For the valuation allowance related to the acquired tax benefits described above, we would first reduce goodwill or intangible assets resulting from the acquisitions, or reduce income tax expense if these intangible assets have been reduced to zero. For the remainder of our valuation allowance, we would reduce income tax expense. Assumption changes that result in a change of expected benefits from realization of capital loss, state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards by 10% would result in a decrease or increase in our valuation allowance by $38 million, which would be reflected in the statement of operations. Significant New Accounting Pronouncements In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. This statement defines fair value and establishes a framework for measuring fair value. Additionally, this statement expands disclosure requirements for fair value with a particular focus on measurement inputs. SFAS No. 157 is effective for our quarterly reporting period ending March 31, 2008. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of this statement on our consolidated financial statements. In September 2006, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 06 1, Accounting for Consideration Given by a Service Provider to Manufacturers or Resellers of Equipment Necessary for an End Customer to Receive Service from the Service Provider. EITF Issue No. 06 1 provides guidance regarding whether the consideration given by a service provider to a manufacturer or reseller of specialized equipment should be characterized as a reduction of revenue or an expense. This issue is effective for our quarterly reporting period ending March 31, 2008. Entities are required to recognize the effects of applying this issue as a change in accounting principle through retrospective application to all prior periods unless it is impracticable to do so. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of this issue on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2006, the EITF reached a consensus on Issue No. 06 3, How Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net 44 Presentation). EITF Issue No. 06 3 requires that companies disclose their accounting policy regarding the gross or net presentation of certain taxes. Taxes within the scope of EITF Issue No. 06 3 are any tax assessed by a governmental authority that is directly imposed on a revenue producing transaction between a seller and a customer and may include, but is not limited to, sales, use, value added and some excise taxes. EITF Issue No. 06 3 is effective for our quarterly reporting period ending March 31, 2007. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of this issue on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2006, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, or FIN 48, an interpretation of SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprises financial statements in accordance with SFAS No. 109, and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. FIN 48 is effective for our quarterly reporting period ending March 31, 2007. The cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 generally will be recorded directly to retained earnings. However, to the extent the adoption of FIN 48 results in a revaluation of uncertain tax positions acquired in purchase business combinations, the cumulative effect will be recorded as an adjustment to any goodwill remaining from the corresponding business combination. We do not believe the adoption of FIN 48 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations We present consolidated information as well as separate supplemental financial information for our two reportable segments, Wireless and Long Distance. The disaggregated financial results for our two segments have been prepared in a manner that is consistent with the basis and manner in which our executives evaluate segment performance and make resource allocation decisions. Consequently, we define segment earnings as operating income before depreciation, amortization, severance, lease exit costs, asset impairments and other expenses. See note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K for additional information on our segments. For reconciliations of segment earnings to the closest generally accepted accounting principles measure, operating income, see tables set forth in Wireless and Long Distance below. We generally account for transactions between segments based on fully distributed costs, which we believe approximate fair value. In certain transactions, pricing is set using market rates. Consolidated Our operating results for 2006 include the results of Nextel Partners from July 1 through the end of the year and the PCS Affiliates that we acquired in 2006, either from the date of acquisition or from the start of the month closest to the acquisition date through the end of the year. Our operating results for 2005 include the results of Nextel from August 12 through the end of the year and the PCS Affiliates that we acquired in 2005, from the date of acquisition through the end of the year. For further information on business combinations, see note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. These transactions affect the comparability of our reported operating results with other periods. Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Net operating revenues $ 41,028 $ 28,789 $ 21,647 Income (loss) from continuing operations 995 821 (2,006 ) Net income (loss) 1,329 1,785 (1,012 ) Net operating revenues increased 43% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and 33% in 2005 as compared to 2004, reflecting growth in revenues of our Wireless segment, resulting primarily from the business combinations discussed above, partially offset by declining revenues of our Long Distance segment. For additional information, see Segment Results of Operations below. 45 Income (loss) from continuing operations increased 21% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and improved from a loss to income in 2005 as compared to 2004, primarily due to a decrease in impairment charges. In 2004, we recorded a $3.5 billion asset impairment charge related to our long distance network. In addition, income (loss) from continuing operations increased due to revenue growth as a result of the business combinations discussed above, partially offset by increases to cost of service primarily due to higher volume in roaming and interconnection expenses. For additional information, see Segment Results of Operations and Consolidated Information below. Net income (loss) decreased 26% in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily as a result of the Embarq spin off. Net income improved in 2005 from a net loss in 2004 primarily as a result of the $3.5 billion asset impairment charge in 2004 related to our long distance network. For additional information, see Segment Results of Operations and Consolidated Information below. Presented below are results of operations for our Wireless and Long Distance segments, followed by a discussion of results of operations on a consolidated basis. Segment Results of Operations Wireless Our Wireless segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006 include the results of acquired companies from either the date of the acquisition or the start of the month closest to the acquisition date. As such, the results of acquired companies are included as of the following dates: Enterprise Communications Partnership and Alamosa Holdings, Inc. from February 1, 2006, Velocita Wireless Holding Corporation from March 1, 2006 and Nextel Partners and UbiquiTel Inc. from July 1, 2006. The year ended December 31, 2005 results include the results of operations of Nextel and US Unwired, Inc. from August 12, 2005, Gulf Coast Wireless from October 1, 2005 and IWO Holdings from November 1, 2005. Year Ended December 31, Change from Previous Year Wireless 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs 2005 2005 vs 2004 (dollars in millions) Service $ 31,059 $ 19,289 $ 12,529 61 % 54 % Wholesale, affiliate and other 859 892 608 (4) % 47 % Total services revenue 31,918 20,181 13,137 58 % 54 % Cost of services (7,933 ) (5,379 ) (3,720 ) 47 % 45 % Service gross margin $ 23,985 $ 14,802 $ 9,417 62 % 57 % Service gross margin percentage 75 % 73 % 72 % Equipment revenue $ 3,197 $ 2,147 $ 1,510 49 % 42 % Cost of products (4,921 ) (3,272 ) (2,381 ) 50 % 37 % Equipment net subsidy $ (1,724 ) $ (1,125 ) $ (871 ) 53 % 29 % Equipment net subsidy percentage (54 )% (52 )% (58 )% Selling, general and administrative expense $ (10,572 ) $ (6,733 ) $ (4,434 ) 57 % 52 % Wireless segment earnings 11,689 6,944 4,112 68 % 69 % Severance, lease exit costs, asset impairments and other(1) (175 ) (105 ) (25 ) 67 % NM Depreciation(1) (5,232 ) (3,364 ) (2,571 ) 56 % 31 % Amortization(1) (3,854 ) (1,335 ) (6 ) 189 % NM Wireless operating income 2,428 2,140 1,510 13 % 42 % NM Not Meaningful (1) Severance, lease exit costs, asset impairments and other, depreciation and amortization are discussed in the Consolidated Information section. 46 Selected Financial and Operating Data The following is a summary of our subscriber activity and related subscriber metrics. The number of subscribers impacts service revenues, cost of service and bad debt expense as well as support costs, such as customer care, which are recorded in general and administrative expenses. For the Year Ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 Direct subscribers, end of period (millions) 45.8 (1) 39.7 17.8 CDMA network 24.2 20.5 17.8 iDEN network 21.6 19.2 N/A Wholesale and affiliate subscribers, end of period (millions) 7.3 7.9 6.9 Direct net subscriber additions(2) (millions) 1.7 3.0 1.9 Monthly customer churn rate Direct post paid 2.3 % 2.2 % 2.6 % Direct prepaid(3) 6.2 % 4.4 % N/A Weighted average 2.6 % 2.3 % 2.6 % Average monthly service revenue per user Direct post paid $61 $63 $62 Direct prepaid(3) 33 37 N/A Weighted average 59 62 62 N/A Not Applicable (1) In the quarter ended December 31, 2006, we changed our subscriber deactivation process for post paid subscribers. To effect this change, the customer subscriber base as of October 1, 2006 was increased by 436,000 subscribers. This adjustment did not impact direct net subscriber additions or the monthly customer churn rates for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. In addition, there were additional customer subscriber base adjustments of 101,000 during the first three quarters of 2006. (2) Direct net subscriber additions do not include subscribers acquired in connection with the Sprint Nextel merger or the PCS Affiliate or Nextel Partners acquisitions. (3) The direct prepaid monthly customer churn rate and average monthly service revenue per user metrics in 2005 are calculated based only on results subsequent to the Sprint Nextel merger. Service Revenue Service revenues consist of fixed monthly recurring charges, variable usage charges and miscellaneous fees such as activation fees, directory assistance, operator assisted calling, equipment protection, late payment charges and certain regulatory related fees. Service revenues increased 61% in 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to the Sprint Nextel merger and other acquisitions and the increase in the number of our direct subscribers, partially offset by a decrease in our weighted average monthly service revenue per user to $59 in 2006 as compared to $62 in 2005. Service revenues increased 54% in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to the merger with Nextel and the increase in the number of our direct subscribers, while our weighted average monthly service revenue per user remained flat year over year. In 2006, we ended the year with about 45.8 million direct subscribers and during the year had about 1.7 million net direct subscriber additions, excluding the Nextel Partners and PCS Affiliate subscribers of about 4.1 million that were acquired with these companies. In comparison, we ended 2005 with about 39.7 million direct subscribers and during the year had about 3.0 million net direct subscriber additions excluding the Nextel and PCS Affiliate subscribers of about 18.9 million that were acquired with the merger or acquisition of these companies. In 2004, we ended the year with about 17.8 million direct subscribers and had about 1.9 million net direct subscriber additions. We believe that the growth in direct subscribers, separate from the growth attributable to subscribers gained as part of the 47 Sprint Nextel merger and PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions, is primarily due to the following factors: growth in the number of subscribers purchasing our wireless prepaid service offering of 49% in 2006 compared to 53% in 2005 for a 2006 end of period wireless prepaid subscriber total of 4.0 million; our differentiating products and services, particularly data related services, including those available under our Sprint Power Vision service plans, and other non voice services, such as instant messaging and emails, sending and receiving pictures, playing on line games and browsing the Internet wirelessly; and selected handset pricing promotions and improved handset choices. Our weighted average monthly service revenue per user decreased to $59 in 2006 from $62 in both 2005 and 2004, primarily due to the following factors: we continued to offer more competitive service pricing plans, including lower priced plans, such as business essentials on both the iDEN and CDMA networks and plans that allow users to add additional units to their plan at attractive rates, such as add a phone and family plans; our prepaid wireless subscribers, who generally have a lower average revenue per user, as illustrated in the table above, increased as a percentage of our total subscriber base to 8% in 2006 compared to 6% in 2005; and our integrated PCS Affiliate subscribers, who have a lower average monthly service revenue and who will no longer be a source of roaming revenue for us; partially offset by the increase in data service revenues, resulting from higher usage as subscribers took advantage of our wide array of data offerings such as short message service, or SMS, connection cards and our Sprint Vision and Power Vision service plans. We have limited distribution of our prepaid services, which may adversely impact our ability to add users of prepaid services in the affected markets. We also are adjusting our credit policies in certain markets, which may adversely impact our ability to add lower credit quality subscribers in markets with relatively tight credit policies. We expect our weighted average monthly service revenue per user to continue to decline as a result of decreases in pricing due to competitive market pricing, incremental customer acquisitions at lower average revenues and existing customer migrations to lower priced plans, partially offset by expected growth in demand for our data services. See Forward Looking Statements. Wholesale, Affiliate and Other Revenue Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues consist primarily of net revenues retained from wireless subscribers residing in PCS Affiliate territories and revenues from the sale of wireless services to companies that resell those services to their subscribers. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues decreased 4% in 2006 primarily due to the PCS Affiliate acquisitions, partially offset by wholesale operator additions of 1.2 million subscribers in 2006. Wholesale, affiliate and other revenues increased 47% in 2005 reflecting the growth in the wholesale operator subscriber base of 1.5 million additions, as well as the 450,000 and 374,000 net subscriber additions in 2005 and 2004 in the PCS Affiliate base. Cost of Services Cost of services consists primarily of: costs to operate and maintain our CDMA and iDEN networks, including direct switch and cell site costs, such as rent, utilities, maintenance, payroll costs associated with our network engineering employees and frequency leasing costs; fixed and variable interconnection costs, the fixed component of which consists of monthly flat rate fees for facilities leased from local exchange carriers based on the number of cell sites and switches in service in a particular period and the related equipment installed at each site; and the variable component of which generally consists of per minute use fees charged by wireline and wireless 48 providers for calls terminating on their networks, which fluctuates in relation to the level and duration of those terminating calls; and costs to service and repair handsets, activate service for new subscribers and roaming fees paid to other carriers. Cost of services increased 47% in 2006 compared to 2005 and 45% in 2005 compared to 2004, primarily due to increased costs relating to the expansion of our network and increased minutes of use on our networks due to our acquisitions. Specifically, we experienced: an increase in cell site and switch related operational costs, including increases in fixed and variable interconnection costs, due to the increase in usage, cell sites and related equipment in service; an increase in backhaul costs driven by the increased capacity required to support our EV DO service, as well as our PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions; and an increase in costs for premium data services resulting from increased subscriber data usage; partially offset by the decrease in roaming expenses due to the acquisition of Nextel Partners and the PCS Affiliates. We expect the aggregate amount of cost of service to increase as customer usage of our networks increases and we add more sites and other equipment to expand the coverage and capacity of our CDMA and iDEN networks. See Forward Looking Statements, Liquidity and Capital Resources and Capital Requirements. Service gross margin increased 62% in 2006 compared to a 57% increase in 2005 because total service revenues grew at a faster rate than cost of services. As a percentage of total service revenue, service gross margin increased slightly to 75% in 2006 from 73% in 2005 and 72% in 2004. Equipment Revenue We recognize equipment revenues when title to the handset or accessory passes to the dealer or end user customer. Revenues from sales of handsets and accessories increased 49% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and increased 42% in 2005 as compared to 2004. The number of handset units sold increased by 39% in 2006 as compared to 2005, and 53% in 2005 as compared to 2004. These increases were primarily due to the Sprint Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions. The average sales price per handset increased 7% in 2006 compared to 2005, primarily due to higher priced handsets being sold, including those that are Power Vision enabled. The average sales price per unit decreased 7% in 2005 compared to 2004, because we lowered our handset retail prices as the cost of handsets declined, we changed our third party compensation plan in 2005, and we continued to offer rebates on existing handsets as new promotional programs were rolled out. Cost of Products We recognize the cost of handsets and accessories, including handset costs in excess of the revenues generated from handset sales (or subsidy), when title to the handset or accessory passes to the dealer or end user customer. Cost of handset and accessories also includes order fulfillment related expenses and write downs of handset and related accessory inventory for shrinkage and obsolescence. The cost of handsets is reduced by any rebates that we earned from the supplier. Handset and accessory costs increased 50% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and increased 37% in 2005 as compared to 2004 primarily due to the Sprint Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate and the Nextel Partners acquisitions. There was also a 8% increase in the average cost per handset sold in 2006 as compared to 2005, as opposed to a 10% decrease in 2005 as compared to 2004. Equipment net subsidy as a percentage of equipment revenues increased to 54% in 2006 from 52% in 2005 and declined in 2005 from 58% in 2004. Our marketing plans assume that handsets typically will be sold at prices below our cost, which is consistent with industry practice. Our subscriber retention efforts often include providing incentives to customers such as offering new handsets at discounted prices. We expect to increase handset subsidies to acquire new subscribers or to retain existing subscribers. For example, we have introduced a new line of hybrid CDMA iDEN devices, marketed as PowerSource, and may offer these devices at a discount in an effort to retain our iDEN 49 subscribers, which may result in an increase in handset subsidies in future periods. See Forward Looking Statements. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Sales and marketing costs primarily consist of customer acquisition costs, including commissions paid to our indirect dealers, third party distributors and direct sales force for new handset activations, upgrades, residual payments to our indirect dealers, payroll and facilities costs associated with our direct sales force, retail stores and marketing employees, advertising, media programs and sponsorships, including costs related to branding. General and administrative costs primarily consist of fees paid for billing, customer care and information technology operations, bad debt expense and back office support activities, including collections, legal, finance, human resources, strategic planning and technology and product development, along with the related payroll and facilities costs. Sales and marketing expense increased 52% in 2006 from 2005 as compared to an increase of 55% in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to the launch of new branding initiatives and advertising campaigns in connection with the Sprint Nextel merger and increased sales and distribution costs to support a larger subscriber base primarily due to the Sprint Nextel merger and PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions. Additionally, we increased the compensation of our post paid third party dealers in the fourth quarter 2006 for both new subscriber additions and upgrades. General and administrative costs increased 62% in 2006 from 2005 as compared to an increase of 49% in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to the Sprint Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions, as well as: an increase in bad debt expense reflecting an increase in the number of subscribers and an increase in involuntary churn. Bad debt expense for 2006 increased 88% from 2005, and increased 112% from 2004 to 2005. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 9% in 2006 and 7% in 2005; an increase in our customer care expenses related to call volume increases due to a larger subscriber base and to increases in customer retention efforts; and an increase in information technology and billing expenses to support a larger subscriber base in addition to an increase in credit card fees as more subscribers submit invoice payments through credit cards. We expect certain selling, general and administrative expenses to continue to increase primarily as a result of increased costs associated with customer acquisition and retention, including increased costs related to strengthening third party distribution channels, and additional marketing, advertising and brand awareness initiatives and customer care and information technology and billing activities. See Forward Looking Statements. Wireless Segment Earnings Wireless segment earnings increased 68% in 2006 from 2005 as compared to an increase of 69% in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to increased revenue resulting from the additional subscribers as a result of the Sprint Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions. 50 Long Distance Year Ended December 31, Change from Previous Year Long Distance 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs 2005 2005 vs 2004 (dollars in millions) Voice $ 3,979 $ 4,213 $ 4,560 (6 )% (8 )% Data 1,440 1,632 1,722 (12 )% (5 )% Internet 933 736 793 27 % (7 )% Other 219 253 252 (13 )% % Total net services revenue 6,571 6,834 7,327 (4 )% (7 )% Cost of services and products (4,426 ) (4,378 ) (4,249 ) 1 % 3 % Service gross margin $ 2,145 $ 2,456 $ 3,078 (13 )% (20 )% Service gross margin percentage 33 % 36 % 42 % Selling, general and administrative expense $ (1,169 ) $ (1,434 ) $ (1,962 ) (18 )% (27 )% Long Distance segment earnings 976 1,022 1,116 (5 )% (8 )% Severance, lease exit costs, asset impairments and other(1) (31 ) (30 ) (3,653 ) 3 % (99 )% Depreciation(1) (506 ) (499 ) (1,081 ) 1 % (54 )% Long Distance operating income (loss) 439 493 (3,618 ) (11 )% 114 % (1) Severance, lease exit costs, asset impairments and other and depreciation are discussed in the Consolidated Information section. Total Net Services Revenues Total net services revenues decreased 4% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and decreased 7% in 2005 as compared to 2004 as a result of a lower priced product mix, the exiting of our unbundled network element platform, or UNE P, business in the first quarter 2006 and our conferencing business in the third quarter 2005, and migration from legacy data products, partially offset by a higher volume of minutes in our wholesale and affiliate business and increases in our IP revenues. Additionally, the termination of a large Dial IP contract during 2004 and the sale of our wholesale Dial IP business in 2004 further contributed to the decreased revenues from 2004 to 2005. These decreases were partially offset by reduced billing adjustments achieved through improved billing processes and dispute resolution. In 2007, we expect to see continued revenue growth in IP services, offset by declines in voice revenues due to lower pricing on commercial contracts and continued pressures in the long distance market. Increased competition and the excess capacity resulting from new technologies and networks may drive already low prices down further. See Forward Looking Statements. Voice Revenues Voice revenues decreased 6% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and decreased 8% in 2005 as compared to 2004, primarily as a result of competition from major local exchange carriers and cable MSOs for our consumer and small business customers, as well as wireless, e mail and instant messaging substitution. Additionally, the 2006 decrease reflects the sale of our UNE P customers in the first quarter 2006. Our retail business experienced a 23% decrease in voice revenues from 2005 to 2006 as competition resulted in lower prices per minute notwithstanding increased minute volumes. Market trends indicate a shift away from the retail business and towards the wholesale business. Voice revenues related to our wholesale business increased about 25% from 2005 to 2006. Minute volume increases drove about 86% of this increase, primarily as a result of our relationship with Embarq and several large cable MSOs, to which we provide local and long distance communications services that they offer to their customers as part of their bundled service offerings. 51 Voice revenues generated from the provision of services to Wireless subscribers represented 17% of total voice revenues in 2006 compared to 14% in 2005. Data Revenues Data revenues reflect sales of legacy data services, including ATM, frame relay and managed network services. Data revenues decreased 12% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and decreased 5% in 2005 as compared to 2004, primarily related to declines in frame relay and ATM services as customers migrated to IP based technologies. These declines were partially offset by growth in managed network services. Internet Revenues Internet revenues reflect sales of IP based data services, including MPLS. Internet revenues increased 27% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and decreased 7% in 2005 as compared to 2004. The 2006 increase was due to higher dedicated IP revenues as business customers increasingly migrate to MPLS services. The 2005 decline was primarily due to the loss of the Dial IP revenues due to the sale of our Dial IP business in October 2004. Other Revenues Other revenues decreased 13% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and 2004 as a result of fewer customer premises equipment, or CPE, projects in 2006 compared to prior years. Costs of Services and Products Costs of services and products include access costs paid to local phone companies, other domestic service providers and foreign phone companies to complete calls made by our domestic customers, costs to operate and maintain our networks and costs of equipment. Costs of services and products increased 1% in 2006 and 3% in 2005. The increases relate primarily to network costs to support growth in our cable initiatives in addition to increased domestic access volume, partially offset by fewer CPE projects in 2006, the loss of UNE P customers in the first quarter 2006 and renegotiated access rate agreements and initiatives to reduce access circuit costs. The 2005 increase was driven by access volume and international access costs, somewhat offset by renegotiated access rate agreements and initiatives to reduce access circuit costs. Service gross margin decreased from 42% in 2004 to 36% in 2005 to 33% in 2006 primarily as a result of declining net services revenues and a lower margin product mix. Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expense decreased 18% in 2006 as compared to 2005 and decreased 27% in 2005 as compared to 2004. The 2006 decline was due primarily to decreased marketing and advertising as a result of a change in the mix of marketing strategies and other cost savings that resulted in lower general and administrative and information technology expenses. The 2005 decline was due primarily to continued restructuring efforts, headcount reductions, aggressive cost savings initiatives, reduced rent costs and lower bad debt expense. Selling, general and administrative expense includes charges for estimated bad debt expense. Every quarter we reassess our allowance for doubtful accounts, based on customer specific indicators, as well as historical trends and industry data, to ensure we are adequately reserved. Bad debt expense for 2006 decreased to $11 million from $30 million in 2005, which was a decrease from $142 million in 2004. The improvement in bad debt expense reflects improved trends in collections and agings. The allowance for doubtful accounts as a percentage of outstanding accounts receivable was 4% in 2006 and 8% in 2005. Total selling, general and administrative expense as a percentage of net services revenues was 18% in 2006, 21% in 2005, and 27% in 2004. Long Distance Segment Earnings Long Distance segment earnings decreased 5% in 2006 from 2005 as compared to a decrease of 8% in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to voice revenue declines related to customer migrations to alternate sources such as cable and wireless. 52 Consolidated Information Year Ended December 31, Change from Previous Year 2006 2005 2004 2006 vs 2005 2005 vs 2004 (in millions) Selling, general and administrative expense $ (12,178 ) $ (8,916 ) $ (6,459 ) 37% 38% Severance, lease exit costs and asset impairments (207 ) (43 ) (3,691 ) NM (99)% Depreciation (5,738 ) (3,864 ) (3,651 ) 48% 6% Amortization (3,854 ) (1,336 ) (7 ) NM NM Interest expense (1,533 ) (1,294 ) (1,218 ) 18% 6% Interest income 301 236 60 28% NM Equity in (losses) earnings of unconsolidated investees, net (6 ) 107 (41 ) (106)% NM Realized gain on sale or exchange of investments 205 62 15 NM NM Other, net 32 39 (61 ) (18)% 164% Income tax (expense) benefit (488 ) (470 ) 1,238 4% 138% Discontinued operations, net 334 980 994 (66)% (1)% Income (loss) available to common shareholders 1,327 1,778 (1,028 ) (25)% NM NM Not Meaningful Selling, General and Administrative Expense Selling, general and administrative expenses are primarily allocated at the segment level and are discussed in the segment earnings discussions above. The selling, general and administrative expenses related to Wireless were $10.6 billion in 2006, $6.7 billion in 2005 and $4.4 billion in 2004. The selling, general and administrative expenses related to Long Distance were $1.2 billion in 2006, $1.4 billion in 2005 and $2.0 billion in 2004. In addition to the selling, general and administrative expenses discussed in the segment earnings discussions, we incurred corporate selling, general and administrative expenses, including merger and integration costs of $413 million in 2006 and $580 million in 2005. Merger and integration costs are generally non recurring in nature and primarily include charges for costs to adopt and launch a new branding strategy and logos, including costs to re brand company owned stores and facilities, costs to train customer facing employees and prepare systems for the launch of the common customer interfacing systems, processes and other integration planning and execution costs, and costs related to employee retention. These merger and integration costs primarily relate to the Sprint Nextel merger and have been included with unallocated corporate selling, general and administrative expenses, and thus excluded from segment results. Severance, Lease Exit Costs and Asset Impairments We recorded $128 million in 2006 related to the separation of employees and lease exit costs as part of the Sprint Nextel merger and integration initiatives, and in 2004 we recorded $151 million in severance and lease exit costs related to organizational realignment and other activities. We recorded asset impairment charges of $69 million in 2006 and $44 million in 2005 primarily related to the write off of various software applications and $3.5 billion in 2004 related to the impairment of our Long Distance property, plant and equipment. We incurred $10 million in facility lease termination costs due to subtenant lease terminations in 2006, $9 million in 2005 and $65 million in 2004. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation expense increased 48% in 2006 from 2005 and increased 6% in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to the Sprint Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions. Excluding the impact of 53 these business combinations, depreciation expense increased 10% as a result of an increase in cell sites in service and the capitalized costs incurred to modify existing switches and cell sites to enhance the capacity of our networks, partially offset by the reduction in value of assets associated with the impairment of our property, plant and equipment in 2004. Amortization expense increased $2.5 billion in 2006 from 2005 and increased $1.3 billion in 2005 from 2004, primarily due to the amortization of the value of customer relationships and other definite lived intangible assets acquired in connection with the Sprint Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions. See note 7 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K for additional information regarding our definite lived intangible assets. Interest Expense Interest expense in 2006 increased $239 million as compared to 2005 due to the additional indebtedness assumed in connection with the Sprint Nextel merger and the PCS Affiliate and Nextel Partners acquisitions. The effective interest rate on our average long term debt balance of $23.3 billion in 2006 was 6.9%. The effective interest rate on our average long term debt balance of $19.7 billion in 2005 was 6.7%. This increase is primarily related to debt assumed as part of the acquisitions in 2006 with, on average, higher interest rates relative to our existing debt. The effective interest rate on our average long term debt balance of $17.4 billion in 2004 was 7.1%. The decrease in our effective interest rate between 2005 and 2004 primarily relates to lower effective interest rates on the assumed Nextel long term debt. The effective interest rate includes the effect of interest rate swap agreements that are discussed in note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. As of December 31, 2006, the average floating rate of interest on the interest rate swaps was 8.3%, while the weighted average coupon on the underlying debt was 7.2%. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for more information on our financing activities. Interest Income Interest income includes dividends received from certain investments in equity securities and interest earned on marketable debt securities and cash equivalents. In 2006, interest income increased 28% as compared to 2005 primarily due to the higher interest rates on the cash equivalents balances as well as interest income recognized in relation to a favorable tax audit settlement for the years 1995 to 2002. This increase was partially offset by the decrease in cash investment balances due to debt retirements, purchases of common stock and acquisitions. In 2005, interest income increased as compared to 2004 primarily due to the increase in the average cash and cash equivalents balances due to the Sprint Nextel merger. Interest income also benefited from a 200 basis point increase in the Federal funds rates during 2005. Equity in (Losses) Earnings of Unconsolidated Investees, net Under the equity method of accounting, we record our proportional share of the earnings or losses of the companies in which we have invested and have the ability to exercise significant influence over, up to the amount of our investment in the case of losses. We recorded $6 million of equity method losses during 2006, primarily due to our ownership interests in E wireless. We recorded $107 million of equity method earnings in 2005 primarily related to Nextel Partners. Our $41 million of equity method losses in 2004 primarily related to our investment in Virgin Mobile USA. Realized Gain on Sale or Exchange of Investments During 2006, we recognized a gain from the sale of investments of $205 million, primarily due to $433 million of gains on the sales of our investment in NII Holdings, Inc., partially offset by a loss of $274 million from the change in fair value of an option contract associated with our investment in NII Holdings, as described in note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. We recognized a gain of $62 million from the sale of our equity method and other investments in 2005, which primarily consisted of gains related to our investments in Call Net Enterprises, Inc., NII Holdings and 54 Earthlink, Inc. In 2004, we recognized a gain of $15 million from the sale of investments, primarily attributable to our investment in Earthlink. Income Tax (Expense) Benefit Our consolidated effective tax rates were 32.9% in 2006, 36.4% in 2005 and 38.2% in 2004. The 2006 effective tax rate was impacted by a $42 million benefit related to tax audit settlements for the years 1995 to 2002 and a $27 million benefit related to state income tax law changes. Information regarding the items that caused the effective income tax rates to vary from the statutory federal rate for income taxes related to continuing operations can be found in note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Discontinued Operations, net Discontinued operations reflect the results of our Local segment for the full years 2004 and 2005 and the year to date period through May 17, 2006, the date of the Embarq spin off. Additional information regarding our discontinued operations can be found in note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. Income from discontinued operations related to the spin off of Embarq remained relatively stable in 2005 and 2004. Financial Condition Our consolidated assets were $97.2 billion as of December 31, 2006, which included $60.1 billion of intangible assets, and $102.8 billion as of December 31, 2005, which included $49.3 billion of intangible assets. The decrease in our consolidated assets was due primarily to the spin off of Embarq, payments and retirements of debt, purchases of shares of our common stock and the retirement of our Seventh series redeemable preferred shares, partially offset by an increase due to assets acquired in connection with several business combinations, net of cash used to purchase the acquired entities. Additional information regarding the impact of the spin off and the business combinations on consolidated assets can be found in notes 2 and 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. See Liquidity and Capital Resources for additional information on the change in cash and cash equivalents. Liquidity and Capital Resources Management exercises discretion regarding the liquidity and capital resource needs of our business segments. This responsibility includes the ability to prioritize the use of capital and debt capacity, to determine cash management policies and to make decisions regarding the timing and amount of capital expenditures. Discontinued Operations On May 17, 2006, we completed the spin off of Embarq. The separation of Embarq from us resulted in two separate companies each of which can focus on maximizing opportunities for its distinct business. We believe this separation presents the opportunity for enhanced performance of each of the two companies, including: allowing each company separately to pursue the business and regulatory strategies that best suit its long term interests and, by doing so, addressing the growing strategic divergence between Embarqs local wireline centric focus and our increasingly national wireless centric focus; creating separate companies that have different financial characteristics, which may appeal to different investor bases; creating opportunities to more efficiently develop and finance expansion plans; and creating effective management incentives tied to the relevant companys performance. In the spin off, we distributed pro rata to our shareholders one Embarq common share for every 20 shares of our voting and non voting common stock, or about 149 million Embarq common shares. Cash was paid for fractional shares. The distribution of Embarq common shares is considered a tax free transaction for us and for our shareholders, except cash payments made in lieu of fractional shares which are generally taxable. In connection with the spin off, Embarq transferred to our parent company $2.1 billion in cash and about $4.5 billion of Embarq senior notes in partial consideration for, and as a condition to, our transfer to Embarq of the local communications business. Embarq also retained about $665 million in debt obligations of its subsidiaries. The cash and senior notes were transferred by our parent company to our finance subsidiary, 55 Sprint Capital Corporation, in satisfaction of indebtedness owed by our parent company to Sprint Capital. On May 19, 2006, Sprint Capital sold the Embarq senior notes to the public, and received about $4.4 billion in net proceeds. In connection with the spin off, we entered into a separation and distribution agreement and related agreements with Embarq, which provide that generally each party will be responsible for its respective assets, liabilities and businesses following the spin off and that we and Embarq will provide each other with certain transition services relating to our respective businesses for specified periods at cost based prices. We also entered into agreements pursuant to which we and Embarq will provide each other with specified services at commercial rates. Further, the agreements provide for a settlement process surrounding the transfer of certain assets and liabilities. It is possible that adjustments will occur in future periods as these matters are settled. At the time of the spin off, all outstanding options to purchase our common stock held by employees of Embarq were cancelled and replaced with options to purchase Embarq common stock. Outstanding options to purchase our common stock held by our directors and employees who remained with us were adjusted by multiplying the number of shares subject to the options by 1.0955 and dividing the exercise price by the same number in order to account for the impact of the spin off on the value of our shares at the time the spin off was completed. Generally, restricted stock units awarded pursuant to our equity incentive plans and held by our employees at the time of the spin off (including those held by those of our employees who became employees of Embarq) were treated in a manner similar to the treatment of outstanding shares of our common stock in the spin off. Holders of these restricted stock units received one Embarq restricted stock unit for every twenty restricted stock units held. Outstanding deferred shares granted under the Nextel Incentive Equity Plan, which represent the right to receive shares of our common stock, were adjusted by multiplying the number of deferred shares by 1.0955. Cash was paid to the holders of deferred shares in lieu of fractional shares. If the spin off of Embarq does not qualify as a tax free transaction, tax could be imposed on both our shareholders and us. We believe that our cash and liquidity requirements will be met without the net cash provided by Embarq. Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, Change 2006 2005 Dollars Percent (dollars in millions) Cash provided by operating activities $ 10,958 $ 10,679 $ 279 3% Cash used in investing activities (11,392 ) (4,724 ) (6,668 ) 141% Cash used in financing activities (6,423 ) (1,228 ) (5,195 ) NM NM Not Meaningful Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities of $11.0 billion in 2006 increased $279 million from 2005 primarily due to a $12.0 billion increase in cash received from our customers as a result of the Sprint Nextel merger in the third quarter 2005, the PCS Affiliate acquisitions in 2005 and 2006 and the Nextel Partners acquisition in the second quarter 2006, as well as continued growth in the Wireless customer base. This increase was partially offset by an $8.5 billion increase in cash paid to suppliers and employees, $1.2 billion of proceeds received in 2005 from the communications towers lease transaction and a decrease in cash provided from discontinued operations of $1.1 billion. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for 2006 increased by $6.7 billion from 2005 due primarily to: a $10.3 billion increase in cash paid in 2006 for acquisitions, including $3.2 billion of net cash paid to acquire Alamosa Holdings, $66 million of net cash paid to acquire Enterprise Communications, $150 million of net cash paid to acquire Velocita Wireless, $847 million of net cash paid to acquire UbiquiTel, and $6.2 billion of net cash paid to acquire Nextel Partners compared to $1.4 billion of net 56 cash paid to acquire three PCS Affiliates in 2005, offset by net cash received in 2005 of $1.2 billion related to the Sprint Nextel merger; a $2.5 billion net increase in cash paid for capital expenditures, including a $481 million decrease related to discontinued operations; and $866 million in cash used to collateralize securities loan agreements; partially offset by $6.3 billion in proceeds in connection with the spin off of our Local segment, including $1.8 billion received from Embarq at the time it was spun off net of cash contributed and proceeds from the sale of Embarq notes of about $4.4 billion. Capital expenditures increased due to higher spending in our Wireless segment, in part related to spending on our iDEN network acquired in the Sprint Nextel merger. We invested in our Wireless segment primarily to enhance network reliability, meet capacity demands and upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services, including the deployment of EV DO technology, as well as to improve iDEN network reliability to meet capacity demands and fulfill our obligations under the Report and Order. We invested in our Long Distance segment to maintain network reliability, upgrade capabilities for providing new products and services and meet capacity demands. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $6.4 billion during 2006 consisted primarily of: $1.6 billion for the purchase of our outstanding common shares pursuant to our share repurchase program that commenced in the third quarter 2006; $3.7 billion paid for the retirement of our term loan and Nextel Partners bank credit facility; and $4.3 billion in payments and retirements related to our capital lease obligations and senior notes; partially offset by net proceeds from the sale of $2.0 billion in principal amount of 6.0% senior serial redeemable notes due in 2016; proceeds of $866 million from a securities loan agreement; net proceeds of $514 million from issuance of commercial paper; and $405 million in proceeds from common share issuances, primarily resulting from exercises of stock options by employees. We paid cash dividends of $296 million in 2006 compared to $525 million in 2005. The decrease in cash dividends paid is due to a decrease in the dividend rate from $0.125 per common share per quarter in the first two quarters of 2005 to $0.025 per common share per quarter beginning in the third quarter 2005. This dividend rate decrease was partially offset by an increase in the average number of common shares outstanding in the year ended December 31, 2006 compared to the year ended December 31, 2005, primarily as a result of the Sprint Nextel merger. Capital Requirements We currently anticipate that future funding needs in the near term will principally relate to: operating expenses relating to our networks; capital expenditures, particularly with respect to the expansion of the coverage and capacity of our wireless networks and the deployment of new technologies in those networks, including our plans to build a new broadband wireless network; scheduled interest and principal payments related to our debt and any purchases or redemptions of our debt securities; dividend payments as declared by our board of directors, and purchases of our common shares pursuant to our share repurchase program; amounts required to be expended in connection with the Report and Order; 57 potential costs of compliance with regulatory mandates; and other general corporate expenditures. Liquidity As of December 31, 2006, our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $2.1 billion. We have a $6.0 billion revolving credit facility, which represents our total committed financing capacity under this facility. This credit facility, which expires in December 2010, provides for interest rates equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, or Prime Rate plus a spread that varies depending on the parent companys credit ratings. There is no rating trigger that would allow the lenders involved to terminate this facility in the event of a credit rating downgrade. In April 2006, we commenced a commercial paper program, which reduced our borrowing costs by allowing us to issue short term debt at lower rates than those available under our $6.0 billion revolving credit facility. The $2.0 billion program is backed by our revolving credit facility and reduces the amount we can borrow under the facility to the extent of the commercial paper outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, we had $514 million of commercial paper outstanding, net of discounts. Although our credit rating remains investment grade, recent downgrades to our credit rating by major credit rating agencies have impacted, and may continue to impact, our ability to place the paper with investors, as well as the duration and interest rates of commercial paper issued since the ratings downgrade. As of December 31, 2006, we had $2.6 billion in letters of credit, including a $2.5 billion letter of credit required by the Report and Order, outstanding under our $6.0 billion revolving credit facility. These letters of credit reduce the availability under the revolving credit facility by an equivalent amount. As a result of the letters of credit and outstanding commercial paper, we had about $2.9 billion of borrowing capacity available under our revolving credit facility. In addition, we had $16 million of general letters of credit outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with all debt covenants, including all financial ratio tests, associated with our borrowings. Our ability to fund our capital needs from outside sources is ultimately impacted by the overall capacity and terms of the banking and securities markets. Given the volatility in these markets, we continue to monitor them closely and to take steps to maintain financial flexibility and a reasonable capital cost structure. As of December 31, 2006, we had working capital of $506 million compared to working capital of $5.0 billion as of December 31, 2005. The decrease in working capital is primarily due to the utilization of cash to fund our 2006 acquisitions, the impact of the spin off of Embarq, debt payments and retirements, the purchase of common shares and the retirement of our Seventh series redeemable preferred shares. In addition to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our working capital consists of accounts receivable, handset and accessory inventory, prepaid expenses, deferred tax assets and other current assets, net of accounts payable, accrued expenses and the current portion of long term debt and capital lease obligations. Future Contractual Obligations The following table sets forth our best estimates as to the amounts and timing of contractual payments for our most significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006. The information in the table reflects future unconditional payments and is based upon, among other things, the terms of the relevant agreements, appropriate classification of items under GAAP currently in effect and certain assumptions, such as future 58 interest rates. Future events, including additional purchases of our securities and refinancing of those securities, could cause actual payments to differ significantly from these amounts. See Forward Looking Statements. 2012 and Future Contractual Obligations Total 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Thereafter (in millions) Senior notes, bank credit facilities, debentures and commercial paper(1) $ 38,244 $ 2,646 $ 2,758 $ 2,009 $ 2,233 $ 3,388 $ 25,210 Capital leases(2) 170 21 27 14 10 10 88 Operating leases(3) 17,905 1,816 1,700 1,595 1,432 1,244 10,118 Purchase orders and other commitments(4) 12,659 6,340 2,177 1,626 918 615 983 Total $ 68,978 $ 10,823 $ 6,662 $ 5,244 $ 4,593 $ 5,257 $ 36,399 (1) Includes principal and estimated interest payments. Interest payments are based on managements expectations for future interest rates. (2) Represents capital lease payments including interest. (3) Includes future lease costs related to sites, switches, offices, retail stores, circuits, towers and spectrum. (4) Excludes $3.6 billion of blanket purchase orders. See below for further discussion. The table above does not include remaining costs to be paid in connection with the fulfillment of our obligation under the Report and Order. The total minimum cash obligation for the Report and Order is $2.8 billion. Costs incurred under the Report and Order associated with the reconfiguration of the 800 MHz band may be applied against the $2.8 billion obligation, subject to approval by the Transition Administrator under the Report and Order. In addition, costs associated with the reconfiguration of the 1.9 GHz spectrum are not fully approved for credit until the completion of the entire reconfiguration process. Because the final reconciliation and audit of the entire reconfiguration obligation outlined in the Report and Order will not take place until after the completion of all aspects of the reconfiguration process, there can be no assurance that we will be given full credit for the expenditures that we have incurred under the Report and Order. Additionally, since we, the Transition Administrator and the FCC have not yet reached an agreement on the methodology for calculating certain amounts of property, plant and equipment to be submitted for credit associated with reconfiguration activity with our own network, we cannot provide assurance that we will be granted full credit for certain of these network costs. As a result of the uncertainty with regard to the calculation of the credit for our internal network costs, as well as the significant number of variables outside of our control, particularly with regard to the 800 MHz reconfiguration licensee costs, we do not believe that we can reasonably estimate what amount, if any, will be paid to the U.S. Treasury. Since the inception of the program through December 31, 2006, we estimate that we have incurred $721 million of costs directly attributable to the reconfiguration program. This amount does not include any indirect network costs that we have preliminarily allocated to the reconfiguration program. Purchase orders and other commitments include minimum purchases we commit to purchase from suppliers over time and or the unconditional purchase obligations where we guarantee to make a minimum payment to suppliers for goods and services regardless of whether suppliers fully deliver them. They include agreements for communications and customer billing services, advertising services and contracts related to information technology and customer care outsourcing arrangements. Amounts actually paid under some of these other agreements will likely be higher due to variable components of these agreements. The more significant variable components that determine the ultimate obligation owed include hours contracted, subscribers and other factors. In addition, we are party to various arrangements that are conditional in nature and create an obligation to make payments only upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the delivery of functioning software or products. Because it is not possible to predict the timing or amounts that may be due under these conditional arrangements, no such amounts have been included in the table above. The table above also excludes about $3.6 billion of blanket purchase order amounts since their agreement terms are not specified. 59 No time frame is set for these purchase orders and they are not legally binding. As a result, they are not firm commitments. Off Balance Sheet Financing We do not participate in, or secure, financings for any unconsolidated, special purpose entities. Future Outlook We expect to be able to meet our currently identified funding needs for at least the next 12 months by using: our anticipated cash flows from operating activities as well as our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities on hand; and or cash available under our existing credit facility and our commercial paper program. In making this assessment, we have considered: anticipated levels of capital expenditures, including funding required in connection with the deployment of next generation technologies and our next generation broadband wireless network; anticipated payments under the Report and Order; declared and anticipated dividend payments, scheduled debt service requirements and purchases of our common shares pursuant to our share repurchase program; merger and integration costs associated with the Sprint Nextel merger and the acquisitions of the PCS Affiliates and Nextel Partners; and other future contractual obligations. If there are material changes in our business plans, or currently prevailing or anticipated economic conditions in any of our markets or competitive practices in the mobile wireless communications industry, or if other presently unexpected circumstances arise that have a material effect on our cash flow or profitability, anticipated cash needs could change significantly. The conclusion that we expect to meet our funding needs for at least the next 12 months as described above does not take into account: any significant acquisition transactions or the pursuit of any significant new business opportunities or spectrum acquisition strategies; potential material purchases or redemptions of our outstanding debt securities for cash; and potential material increases in the cost of compliance with regulatory mandates. Any of these events or circumstances could involve significant additional funding needs in excess of anticipated cash flows from operating activities and the identified currently available funding sources, including existing cash on hand, borrowings available under our existing credit facility and our commercial paper program. If existing capital resources are not sufficient to meet these funding needs, it would be necessary to raise additional capital to meet those needs. Our ability to raise additional capital, if necessary, is subject to a variety of additional factors that cannot currently be predicted with certainty, including: the commercial success of our operations; the volatility and demand of the capital markets; the market prices of our securities; and tax law restrictions related to the spin off of Embarq that may limit our ability to raise capital from the sale of our equity securities. We have in the past and may in the future have discussions with third parties regarding potential sources of new capital to satisfy actual or anticipated financing needs. At present, other than the existing arrangements that have been described in this report, we have no legally binding commitments or understandings with any third parties to obtain any material amount of additional capital. 60 The above discussion is subject to the risks and other cautionary and qualifying factors set forth under Forward Looking Statements and in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors. Financial Strategies General Risk Management Policies We primarily use derivative instruments for hedging and risk management purposes. Hedging activities may be done for various purposes, including, but not limited to, mitigating the risks associated with an asset, liability, committed transaction or probable forecasted transaction. We seek to minimize counterparty credit risk through stringent credit approval and review processes, credit support agreements, continual review and monitoring of all counterparties, and thorough legal review of contracts. We also control exposure to market risk by regularly monitoring changes in hedge positions under normal and stress conditions to ensure they do not exceed established limits. Our board of directors has adopted a financial risk management policy that authorizes us to enter into derivative transactions, and all transactions comply with the policy. We do not purchase or hold any derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes with the exception of equity rights obtained in connection with commercial agreements or strategic investments, usually in the form of warrants to purchase common shares. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk We are primarily exposed to the market risk associated with unfavorable movements in interest rates, foreign currencies and equity prices. The risk inherent in our market risk sensitive instruments and positions is the potential loss arising from adverse changes in those factors. Interest Rate Risk The communications industry is a capital intensive, technology driven business. We are subject to interest rate risk primarily associated with our borrowings. Interest rate risk is the risk that changes in interest rates could adversely affect earnings and cash flows. Specific interest rate risk include: the risk of increasing interest rates on short term debt; the risk of increasing interest rates for planned new fixed rate long term financings; and the risk of increasing interest rates for planned refinancing using long term fixed rate debt. Cash Flow Hedges We enter into interest rate swap agreements designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the impact of interest rate movements on future interest expense by effectively converting a portion of our floating rate debt to a fixed rate. As of December 31, 2006, we had no outstanding interest rate cash flow hedges. Fair Value Hedges We enter into interest rate swap agreements to manage exposure to interest rate movements and achieve an optimal mixture of floating and fixed rate debt while minimizing liquidity risk. The interest rate swap agreements designated as fair value hedges effectively convert our fixed rate debt to a floating rate by receiving fixed rate amounts in exchange for floating rate interest payments over the life of the agreement without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. As of December 31, 2006, we had outstanding interest rate swap agreements that were designated as fair value hedges. About 95% of our debt as of December 31, 2006 was fixed rate debt excluding interest rate swaps. While changes in interest rates impact the fair value of this debt, there is no impact to earnings and cash flows because we intend to hold these obligations to maturity unless market and other conditions are favorable. As of December 31, 2006, we held fair value interest rate swaps with a notional value of $1.0 billion. These swaps were entered into as hedges of the fair value of a portion of our senior notes. These interest rate swaps have maturities ranging from 2008 to 2012. On a semiannual basis, we pay a floating rate of interest equal to the six month LIBOR plus a fixed spread and receive an average interest rate equal to the coupon rates stated on the underlying senior notes. On December 31, 2006, the rate we would pay averaged 8.3% and the rate we would receive was 7.2%. Assuming a one percentage point increase in the prevailing forward yield curve, the fair value of the interest rate swaps and the underlying senior notes would change by $28 million. These interest rate swaps met all the requirements for perfect effectiveness under derivative accounting rules as all of 61 the critical terms of the swaps perfectly matched the corresponding terms of the hedged debt; therefore, there is no net effect to earnings and cash flows for any fair value fluctuations. We perform interest rate sensitivity analyses on our variable rate debt including interest rate swaps. These analyses indicate that a one percentage point change in interest rates would have an annual pre tax impact of $20 million on our statements of operations and cash flows as of December 31, 2006. While our variable rate debt may impact earnings and cash flows as interest rates change, it is not subject to changes in fair values. We also perform a sensitivity analysis on the fair market value of our outstanding debt. A 10% decline in market interest rates would cause a $976 million increase in the fair market value of our debt to $24.3 billion. This analysis includes the hedged debt. In 2005, we entered into a series of interest rate collars associated with the issuance of debt by Embarq at the time of its spin off on May 17, 2006. These collars were designated as cash flow hedges in Embarqs consolidated financial statements against the variability in interest payments that would result from a change in interest rates before the debt was issued at the time of the spin off. However, because the forecasted interest payments of debt started after the spin off, the derivative instruments did not qualify for hedge accounting treatment in our consolidated financial statements. As such, included in discontinued operations in 2006 is $43 million in gains, after tax, realized from the change in fair value of these interest rate collars. Foreign Currency Risk We also enter into forward contracts and options in foreign currencies to reduce the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. Our foreign exchange risk management program focuses on reducing transaction exposure to optimize consolidated cash flow. We use foreign currency derivatives to hedge our foreign currency exposure related to settlement of international telecommunications access charges and the operation of our international subsidiaries. The dollar equivalent of our net foreign currency payables from international settlements was $20 million and net foreign currency receivables from international operations was $20 million as of December 31, 2006. The potential immediate pre tax loss to us that would result from a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates based on these positions would be insignificant. Equity Risk We are exposed to market risk as it relates to changes in the market value of our investments. We invest in equity instruments of public and private companies for operational and strategic business purposes. These securities are subject to significant fluctuations in fair market value due to volatility of the stock market and industries in which the companies operate. These securities, which are classified in investments and marketable securities on the consolidated balance sheets, include equity method investments, investments in private securities, available for sale securities and equity derivative instruments. We entered into a series of option contracts associated with our investment in NII Holdings in order to hedge the price risk associated with this security. The first of these contracts did not qualify for hedge accounting and the changes in fair value of that contract were recognized in earnings during the period of change. The remainder of these equity derivative instruments were settled in December 2006. Additional information regarding our derivative instruments can be found in note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements appearing at the end of this annual report on Form 10 K. In certain business transactions, we are granted warrants to purchase the securities of other companies at fixed rates. These warrants are supplemental to the terms of the business transaction and are not designated as hedging instruments. During 2002 and 2003, we entered into variable prepaid forward contracts to monetize equity securities held as available for sale. The derivatives were designated as cash flow hedges to reduce the variability in expected cash flows related to the forecasted sale of the underlying equity securities. These prepaid contracts were settled between the fourth quarter 2004 and fourth quarter 2005. 
 
