FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20041201071610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Table of Contents
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
(b) On November 30, 2004, William R. Rohn's responsibilities as the Registrant's Chief Operating Officer were assumed by James C. Mullen, the Registrant's Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the senior management team. Mr. Rohn will retire on January 31, 2005. On November 29, 2004, the Registrant issued a press release announcing this management change. A copy of the press release is attached to this Report as Exhibit 99.1
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
99.1 The Registrant's Press Release dated November 29, 2004.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: December 1, 2004
Table of Contents

 
For More Information Contact:
Jose Juves Associate Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec (617) 914-6524
Media Contact:
Christina Dillon Senior Manager, Investor Relations Biogen Idec (617) 679-2812
Investment Community Contact:
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
- Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) today announced that Chief Operating Officer (COO) William R. Rohn will retire from the company effective January 31, 2005. To ensure a smooth transition, Mr. Rohn's responsibilities as COO will be assumed by James C. Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer, and other members of the senior management team, starting November 30, 2004.
Cambridge, MA, and San Diego, CA (November 29, 2004)
William H. Rastetter, Ph.D., Biogen Idec's Executive Chairman, said, "Through his vision, commitment, and strong leadership over more than a decade, Bill Rohn helped transform IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation from a small research organization into a very successful biotechnology company. Bill then played an instrumental role in the formation of Biogen Idec, a global biotechnology leader. We thank him for his countless contributions. He has been a great colleague and will be missed."
"My eleven years at the company have been unbelievably gratifying," said Mr. Rohn. "I've had the great fortune to be part of a talented team that has developed and commercialized landmark
 
therapies in both cancer and multiple sclerosis. As a professional in the pharmaceutical industry, it doesn't get better than that."
Prior to the merger of IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation and Biogen, Inc., Mr. Rohn was President and Chief Operating Officer of IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation. He joined IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation in August 1993 as Senior Vice President, Commercial and Corporate Development. Following his departure from the company, Mr. Rohn will focus his efforts on philanthropic endeavors, community service in the San Diego, CA area, and corporate board work with early-stage biotechnology companies. Mr. Rohn is currently on the Board of Directors of both Pharmacyclics, Inc. and Cerus Corporation.
About Biogen Idec Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in oncology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit www.biogenidec.com.


