FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20040728083936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 12. Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes information with respect to the following: (a) the Registrant's adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share and net income for the second quarter and the first six months of 2004, and (b) the Registrant's adjusted pro forma non-GAAP earnings per share, net income and revenues for the second quarter and the first six months of 2003. These are non-GAAP financial measures.
     The non-GAAP financial measures for the second quarter and the first six months of 2004 exclude non-operational and unusual activities and transactions. The non-GAAP financial measures for the second quarter and the first six months of 2003 include revenue and expenses from the former Biogen, Inc. and exclude non-operational and unusual activities and transactions of former Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation.
     Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors. In particular, management believes that they allow investors to monitor and evaluate the Registrant's ongoing operating results and trends and gain a better understanding of the Registrant's business, period-to-period performance, and prospects for future performance.
     This press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 12 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such documents be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Page 1 Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2004 Earnings
Media Contact: Amy Ryan Associate Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Elizabeth Woo Senior Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, July 28, 2004  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), the world's third largest biotech company with leading products and capabilities in oncology and immunology, today reported its second quarter 2004 results.
Second Quarter Highlights
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2004 Earnings
"With the timeline of ANTEGREN accelerated by more than a year in MS, much of the energy of the organization is focused on preparing for launches in the U.S. and Europe. Together with our partner, Elan, we have made significant strides this quarter in the regulatory arena, as well as manufacturing and commercial preparation," said James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer. "We're also excited to pursue additional business development deals, such as the recent Vernalis collaboration, that leverage our development and commercial infrastructure."
Financial Performance
In the second quarter of 2004, revenues grew 20% to $539 million (adjusted pro forma Q2 2003: $447 million), with:
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income was up 20% to $122 million in the second quarter of 2004 (Q2 2003: $102 million). Adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share increased 16% to $0.34 for the second quarter of 2004 (Q2 2003: $0.29).
Adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share and net income for the second quarter of 2004 excludes merger-related accounting impacts, such as amortization of intangibles, inventory step up, and other merger-related charges, and other non-operating charges. Adjusted pro forma non-GAAP earnings per share and net income for the second quarter of 2003 include revenue and expenses from the former Biogen, Inc. from April 1 to June 30, 2003 but excludes other non-operating charges of former Biogen, Inc. and IDEC Pharmaceuticals Corporation. These adjustments, expenses, and non-operating charges are itemized on the attached reconciliation tables.
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), Biogen Idec reported net income of $0.8 million (or earnings per share of $0.00) in the second quarter of 2004. The difference between adjusted non-GAAP net income and GAAP net income in the second quarter was primarily due to $173 million of non-cash merger-related accounting impacts.
Product Sales Performance
Second quarter revenues of AVONEX, Biogen Idec's therapy for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis, increased 21% to $347 million (Q2 2003: $286 million). U.S. sales of $227 million increased 15% (Q2 2003: $196 million). International sales
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2004 Earnings
were $120 million, an increase of 33% (Q2 2003: $90 million); in local currency, sales grew 22%.
Revenues for the second quarter of 2004 included $151 million from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement with Genentech, Inc. related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech (Q2 2003: $118 million). All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits on a quarterly basis. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN in the second quarter of 2004, as recorded by Genentech, were $390 million (Q2 2003: $328 million).
Revenues of ZEVALIN, Biogen Idec's radioimmunotherapeutic agent, were $5 million in the second quarter of 2004 (Q2 2003: $5 million).
Revenues of AMEVIVE, Biogen Idec's treatment for moderate-to-severe psoriasis, were $12 million in the second quarter of 2004 (Q2 2003: $7 million)
Recent Highlights
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2004 Earnings
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the second quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on July 28, 2004, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, http://www.biogenidec.com.
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in oncology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future financial results and plans for our development programs, including ANTEGREN.
     These statements are based on the Company's current beliefs and expectations. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially. For example, financial results, including future revenues, revenue growth, earnings per share, product sales, royalties, expenses, effective tax rate, and capital expenditures, may be
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2004 Earnings
affected by a number of factors, including any slowing of growth of the markets for AVONEX and RITUXAN, any change in market acceptance of these products in key markets worldwide, the extent to which the Company achieves market acceptance of its other products, the impact of reimbursement and pricing decisions related to the Company's products, the impact of competitive products on the Company's products, any material decreases in sales by licensees of products on which the Company receives royalties, the impact of litigation, any unanticipated increase in expenses, in-licensing and product opportunities, increase in costs related to development and commercialization of new products, including ANTEGREN, and any material issues, delays or failures related to the manufacturing or supply of the Company's products.
Our long-term growth will depend on the successful development and commercialization of new products such as ANTEGREN. Drug development involves a high degree of risk. For example, our plans to launch ANTEGREN as a treatment for MS could be negatively affected if unexpected concerns arise from additional data or analysis, if regulatory authorities require additional information or further studies, or if we were to encounter other unexpected hurdles.
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with these forward looking statements and the Company's other activities see the periodic reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
TABLE 3
The non-GAAP financial measures presented below are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational or unusual activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
(A) Represents the non-cash expense related to valuing the inventory acquired from former Biogen, Inc. at fair value.
(B) Represents external, incremental consulting, integration costs, severance, and restructuring charges related to the merger.
(C) Represents the on-going, non-cash amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the merger with former Biogen, Inc.
(D) Represents the tax effect of the above adjustments.
(E) Represents the elimination of Biogen Idec contract revenue and expense - $2M.
(F) Represents former Biogen, Inc. operating revenue and expenses for the period Apr-Jun of 2003 prior to the merger, net of intercompany transactions.
(G) Represents former IDEC one-time adjustment of $20M related to a signing payment for the Genentech new anti-CD20 antibody development collaboration.
(H) Adjustment for interest expense and convertible securities were not included for the period as they were anti-dilutive.
(I) Due to adoption of EITF 03-06 which requires allocation of income to certain holders of equity & debt instruments.
 
TABLE 4
The non-GAAP financial measures presented below are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational or unusual activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
(A) Represents the non-cash expense related to valuing the inventory acquired from former Biogen, Inc. at fair value.
(B) Represents external, incremental consulting, integration costs, severance, and restructuring charges related to the merger.
(C) Represents the on-going, non-cash amortization of acquired intangible assets related to the merger with former Biogen, Inc.
(D) Represents the tax effect of the above adjustments.
(E) Represents the elimination of Biogen Idec contract revenue and expense - $3.1M.
(F) Represents former Biogen, Inc. operating revenue and expenses for the period Jan-Jun of 2003 prior to the merger, net of intercompany transactions.
(G) Represents former IDEC one-time adjustment of $20M related to a signing payment for the Genentech new anti-CD20 antibody development collaboration.
(H) Adjustment for interest expense and convertible securities were not included for the period as they were anti-dilutive.
(I) Due to adoption of EITF 03-06 which requires allocation of income to certain holders of equity & debt instruments.
 
The non-GAAP pro forma financial measures presented below are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative revenue performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational or unusual activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance.
     (A) Represents former Biogen, Inc. revenue that is not included in GAAP revenues.


