FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20051026161931.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes information with respect to the Registrant's adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share and net income for the third quarter of 2005 and 2004 and nine months ended 2005 and 2004. These are non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures exclude charges for non-cash merger-related accounting impacts, primarily amortization of intangibles, inventory step-up and other merger-related charges, severance and relocation charges related to the workforce reduction announced by the Registrant in September 2005, and charges related to the sale of the Registrant's Oceanside, California large-scale manufacturing facility and the planned sale of the Registrant's clinical manufacturing facility in San Diego, California.
     Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors. In particular, management believes that they allow investors to monitor and evaluate the Registrant's ongoing operating results and trends and gain a better understanding of the Registrant's business, period-to-period performance, and prospects for future performance.
     This press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such documents be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 8.01  Other Events
     On October 17, 2005, the Registrant and Elan Corporation, plc publicly disseminated a press release announcing that findings from the safety evaluation of TYSABRI (natalizumab) in patients with Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis resulted in no new confirmed cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy. The information contained in the press release is incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 26, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
     
Page 1
Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2005 Earnings
Media Contact: Jose Juves Associate Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Elizabeth Woo Vice President, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, October 26, 2005  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader with leading products and capabilities in oncology, neurology and immunology, today reported its third quarter 2005 results.
Third Quarter Highlights
 
     
Page 2
Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2005 Earnings
"We previously announced our strategic plan to reduce operating expenses to fund increased business development activities in order to accelerate long-term growth," said James C. Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer. "During the quarter, we have progressed against these goals by signing the partnership with PDL to jointly develop and commercialize three Phase II antibodies. Additionally, we achieved several key near-term milestones including the completion of the extensive safety evaluation of TYSABRI(natalizumab), the submission of TYSABRI's regulatory filings for multiple sclerosis (MS) in the US and Europe, and the submission of RITUXAN's regulatory filings for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in the US."
Financial Performance
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec's net income was $122 million in the third quarter of 2005 (Q3 2004 adjusted non-GAAP: $132 million). Adjusted non-GAAP EPS were $0.36 for the third quarter of 2005 (Q3 2004 adjusted non-GAAP: $0.37).
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $27 million (or EPS of $0.08) in the third quarter of 2005 (Q3 2004: net income of $37 million, or EPS of $0.10). The difference between adjusted non-GAAP net income and EPS and GAAP net income and EPS in the third quarter were primarily due to:
These adjustments are itemized on Table 3.
Revenue Performance
Revenues for the third quarter of 2005 were up 14% to $182 million (Q3 2004: $160 million) from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement with Genentech related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion
 
     
Page 3
Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2005 Earnings
profits on a quarterly basis. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $456 million in the third quarter of 2005 (Q3 2004: $393 million), as reported by Genentech.
Revenues from AVONEX, Biogen Idec's therapy for patients with relapsing forms of MS, increased 8% in the third quarter to $375 million (Q3 2004: $346 million). AVONEX, the leading therapy for MS in the U.S. as measured by revenues, patients, and total prescriptions, reported sales of $235 million in U.S. sales for the quarter (Q3 2004: $224 million). International sales increased 15% to $140 million in the third quarter of 2005 (Q3 2004: $122 million).
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalties were $23 million in the third quarter of 2005 (Q3 2004: $24 million).
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec estimates that its 2006 non-GAAP earnings per share, excluding the impact of stock option expensing (FAS123R), will be in the range of $1.95  $2.10. Guidance regarding the impact of FAS123R will be provided at a later date.
The Company anticipates that 2006 capital expenditures will be in the range of $200  $275 million.
Guidance for full year 2006 reported earnings per share (GAAP-based financial measure) is not currently accessible as the Company cannot predict with any certainty the nature or the amount of non-operating or unusual charges for subsequent quarters. The Company does, however, anticipate that it may have to take such charges in subsequent quarters and that such charges, if material, would cause reported earnings per share to differ from operating earnings per share.
Recent Events
 
     
Page 4
Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2005 Earnings
 
     
Page 5
Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2005 Earnings
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the third quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 5:00 p.m. ET on October 26, 2005, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, .
http://www.biogenidec.com
Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) creates new standards of care in oncology, neurology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit http://www.biogenidec.com.
About Biogen Idec
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future financial results, including the financial objectives of the Company's strategic restructuring plan, short and long-term growth, plans for external growth and the Company's development programs, the potential for TYSABRI, and the Company's commitment of significant additional capital to external business development and research opportunities.
These statements are based on the Company's current beliefs and expectations. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially. For example, financial results, short and long-term growth, plans for external growth and development programs, and the commitment of significant additional capital to external business development and research opportunities may be affected by a number of factors, including any unexpected slowing of growth of the markets for AVONEX and RITUXAN, any change in market acceptance of AVONEX and RITUXAN in key markets worldwide, the impact of reimbursement and pricing decisions related to the Company's products, the impact of competitive products on the Company's products, any material decreases in sales by licensees of products on which the Company receives royalties, the impact of litigation, the impact of costs related to the suspension of TYSABRI, increases in costs related to, or an inability for us to enter into on acceptable terms, in-licensing deals, collaborations or acquisitions, increases in costs related to research and development of new products as well as increases in costs related to development of existing products in new indications, an inability for us to achieve acceptable terms from third parties for assets which have been proposed for divestment, and any material issues, delays or failures related to the manufacturing or supply of the Company's products.
Our long-term growth will depend on the successful development and commercialization of new products as well as the development and commercialization of existing products in new indications (such as RITUXAN in RA). Drug development involves a high degree of risk. For example, the plans for our development programs could be negatively
 
     
Page 6
Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2005 Earnings
affected if unexpected concerns arise from additional data or analysis, if regulatory authorities require additional information or further studies, or if we were to encounter other unexpected hurdles.
The potential for TYSABRI is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. There is no assurance, for example, that we will be able to gain sufficient information to fully understand the risks associated with the product. There is also no assurance that the Company and Elan will be able to resume marketing and sales of TYSABRI.
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with these forward looking statements and the Company's other activities, see the periodic reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
TABLE 2
 
The non-GAAP financial measures presented below are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
Adjustments were made to conform prior periods to current year presentation including adoption of EITF 03-06, which requires allocation of income to certain holders of equity and debt instruments.
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
      
      
For More Information Contact:
 Elan Corporation, plc (NYSE: ELN) and Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) announced today that findings from their safety evaluation of TYSABRI (natalizumab) in patients with Crohn's disease (CD) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) resulted in no new confirmed cases of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). The companies have previously reported that findings from their safety evaluation of TYSABRI in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) resulted in no new confirmed cases of PML. Three confirmed cases of PML were previously reported, two of which were fatal. The TYSABRI safety evaluation is now complete.
Dublin, Ireland and Cambridge, MA - October 17, 2005
On September 26, 2005 the companies announced that they submitted a supplemental Biologics License Application for TYSABRI to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment of MS. The companies also recently submitted a similar data package to the European Medicines Agency.
More than 1,500 CD and RA patients from clinical trials were eligible for the safety evaluation. A total of 88% of these patients participated in the safety evaluation. In total, 98% of the patients participating in the evaluation had a neurological exam by a consultant neurologist and an MRI exam.
 
On February 28, 2005, Biogen Idec and Elan announced that they voluntarily suspended TYSABRI from the U.S. market and all ongoing clinical trials based on reports of PML, a rare and potentially fatal, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system.
Elan Corporation, plc is a neuroscience-based biotechnology company committed to making a difference in the lives of patients and their families by dedicating itself to bringing innovations in science to fill significant unmet medical needs that continue to exist around the world. Elan shares trade on the New York, London and Dublin Stock Exchanges. For additional information about the company, please visit .
About Elan
http://www.elan.com
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in oncology, neurology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
About Biogen Idec
http://www.biogenidec.com


