FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20050307170937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 8.01     Other Events
     On March 3, 2005, the Registrant publicly disseminated a press release announcing an update on the voluntary suspension in the marketing of TYSABRI(natalizumab), a treatment for multiple sclerosis. The information contained in the press release is incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)      Exhibits.
          99.1      The Registrant's Press Release dated March 3, 2005.
 
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 7, 2005
 
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For More Information Contact:
Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) and Elan Corporation, plc (NYSE:ELN) announced today an update on the voluntary suspension in the marketing of TYSABRI(natalizumab), a treatment for multiple sclerosis (MS).
Cambridge, MA and Dublin, Ireland  March 3, 2005 
 
 
Page 2    Biogen Idec and Elan Announce Update on TYSABRI
In addition, Biogen Idec and Elan have undertaken to provide information to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) in connection with the voluntary suspension in the marketing of TYSABRI. The companies are cooperating with the agency regarding these matters.
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in oncology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
About Biogen Idec
http://www.biogenidec.com
Elan Corporation, plc is a neuroscience-based biotechnology company. We are committed to making a difference in the lives of patients and their families by dedicating ourselves to bringing innovations in science to fill significant unmet medical needs that continue to exist around the world. Elan shares trade on the New York, London and Dublin Stock Exchanges. For additional information about the company, please visit .
About Elan
http://www.elan.com
Safe Harbor/Forward Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the potential for TYSABRI. These statements are based on the companies' current beliefs and expectations, and are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. There is no assurance, for example, that the serious adverse events discussed above were not caused by TYSABRI, that there are not or will not be more such serious adverse events or that we will be able to gain sufficient information to fully understand the risks associated with the product. There is also no assurance that the companies will be able to resume marketing and sales of TYSABRI. For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with TYSABRI and the companies' drug development and other activities, see the periodic and other reports of Biogen Idec Inc. and Elan Corporation, plc filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The companies assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


