FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20050915161403.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 1.01  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On September 12, 2005, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") approved the grant of an aggregate of approximately 1.17 million performance-based restricted stock units to be settled in shares of the Company's common stock to a group of approximately 200 of the Company's employees at the director-level and above. The grants were made under the Company's 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan. Grants were made to all of the Company's executive officers other than James C. Mullen, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and President, and William H. Rastetter, the Company's Executive Chairman.
     The grants to executive officers are as follows: Raymond G. Arner, Acting General Counsel (30,000 units); Burt A. Adelman, Executive Vice President, Development (45,000 units); John M. Dunn, Executive Vice President, New Ventures (29,500 units); Peter N. Kellogg, Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (50,000 units); Connie L. Matsui, Executive Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Communications (25,000 units); Craig E. Schneier, Executive Vice President, Human Resources (45,000 units); and Mark C. Wiggins, Executive Vice President, Business Development (40,000 units).
     These restricted stock units have performance-based vesting that will depend entirely upon the Company's achievement, over the next 12-18 months, of certain performance-based objectives approved by the Compensation Committee, and continued employment.
     A form of the grant notice utilized in connection with these grants is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 15, 2005
Table of Contents

 
It is my pleasure to inform you that <>under the Biogen Idec Inc. 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan (the Plan). The RSUs , detailed in If the performance goals are attained and you are still in active employment on the date of "vesting" in accordance with the requirements of the Plan and this Notice, a portion of this grant will convert ("vest") on September 14, 2006 and a second portion on March 14, 2007. Shares will be delivered to you upon vesting, subject to payment of applicable withholding taxes, as explained in the Plan.
effective September 14, 2005, you have been granted
Number of Units
restricted stock units (RSUs),
will convert into shares of Biogen Idec stock
subject to attainment of the performance goals
Exhibit 2 (which is incorporated into and made a part of this Notice of Grant) and your continued employment.
The terms and conditions that govern your RSU grant are contained in this Notice and in the Plan, which is incorporated into and made a part of the Notice, except that the provisions of the Plan that provide for accelerated vesting upon "Retirement" (as defined in the Plan) are excluded from this RSU grant. The Plan is described in a related prospectus. Copies of the Prospectus and the Plan are available internally on the iNet.
If you do not have access to the iNet or would prefer to have copies mailed to you, please call the HR Help Desk.
This Notice, which includes the Plan, constitutes the entire agreement between Biogen Idec and you, and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements between us with regard to this grant.
This Notice shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Your grant is based on your position, your prior performance, and your expected contribution to the future value of Biogen Idec. It serves to further align your interest with those of our shareholders.
Sincerely,
Richard W. Fisher Vice President, Human Resources


