FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20050427163245.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes information with respect to the Registrant's adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share and net income for the first quarter of 2005 and 2004. These are non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures exclude non-cash merger-related accounting impacts and other merger-related charges.
     Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors. In particular, management believes that they allow investors to monitor and evaluate the Registrant's ongoing operating results and trends and gain a better understanding of the Registrant's business, period-to-period performance, and prospects for future performance.
     This press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such documents be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 27, 2005
Table of Contents

 
Media Contact: Jose Juves Associate Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Elizabeth Woo Vice President, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, April 27, 2005  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader with leading products and capabilities in oncology and immunology, today reported its first quarter 2005 results.
First Quarter 2005 Highlights
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2005 Results
James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer, commented, "While we are disappointed with the events surrounding our voluntary suspension of TYSABRI, we are working diligently through a comprehensive evaluation to determine the appropriate next steps. Even as we focus on this critical, ongoing analysis, our core business remains healthy and growing as evidenced by the underlying strength of our top line revenues."
Financial Performance
Financial performance in the quarter was affected by the impact of four events, totaling approximately $70 million before tax, or EPS of $0.14 (which are reflected both in our adjusted non-GAAP and GAAP results):
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2005 Results
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income of $106 million in the first quarter of 2005 (Q1 2004 adjusted non-GAAP: $143 million). Adjusted non-GAAP EPS was $0.30 for the first quarter of 2005 (Q1 2004 adjusted non-GAAP: $0.40).
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $43 million (or EPS of $0.12) in the first quarter of 2005 (Q1 2004: net loss of $41 million, or loss per share of $0.12). The difference between adjusted non-GAAP net income and EPS and GAAP net income and EPS in the first quarter were primarily due to pre-tax charges of $86 million of non-cash merger-related accounting impacts, primarily amortization of intangibles, inventory step-up, and other merger-related charges. These adjustments are itemized on the attached reconciliation tables.
Revenue Performance
Revenues for the first quarter of 2005 were up 20% to $160 million (Q1 2004: $134 million) from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement with Genentech related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits on a quarterly basis. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $441 million in the first quarter of 2005 (Q1 2004: $362 million), as reported by Genentech.
Revenues from AVONEX, Biogen Idec's therapy for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), increased 5% in the first quarter to $374 million (Q1 2004: $355 million). In the first quarter of 2005, U.S. sales were $233 million and international sales were $141 million.
Revenues from TYSABRI, a therapy for patients with relapsing forms of MS that Biogen Idec co-developed with Elan Corporation, plc, were $6 million in the first quarter, net of estimated returns associated with the voluntary suspension of the marketing of this product.
Revenues from other products were $18 million in the first quarter (Q1 2004: $18 million). Specifics are provided in Table 4.
Royalties were $27 million in the first quarter of 2005 (Q1 2004: $25 million).
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2005 Results
Financial Guidance
The Company anticipates that the charges in the first quarter as well as other expected charges for the balance of the year to adversely impact EPS by $0.25.
The Company anticipates capital expenditures in 2005 to be reduced slightly, to the range of $350 - $425 million.
Recent 2005 Events
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the first quarter will be broadcast via the Internet at 5:00 p.m. ET on April 27, 2005, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, .
http://www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in oncology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2005 Results
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future financial results, plans for our development programs and the potential for TYSABRI.
These statements are based on the Company's current beliefs and expectations. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially. For example, financial results, including future revenue and EPS growth, anticipated levels of expenses, other statements regarding future financial performance, and overall prospects for the Company's products may be affected by a number of factors, including any unexpected slowing of growth of the markets for AVONEX and RITUXAN, any change in market acceptance of AVONEX and RITUXAN in key markets worldwide, the impact of reimbursement and pricing decisions related to the Company's products, the impact of competitive products on the Company's products, any material decreases in sales by licensees of products on which the Company receives royalties, the impact of litigation, the impact of costs related to the suspension of TYSABRI, any unanticipated increase in expenses related to in-licensing and product opportunities, increases in costs related to development of new products and existing products in new indications, and any material issues, delays or failures related to the manufacturing or supply of the Company's products.
Our long-term growth will depend on the successful development and commercialization of new products. Drug development involves a high degree of risk. For example, the plans for our development programs could be negatively affected if unexpected concerns arise from additional data or analysis, if regulatory authorities require additional information or further studies, or if we were to encounter other unexpected hurdles.
The potential for TYSABRI is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. There is no assurance, for example, that we will be able to gain sufficient information to fully understand the risks associated with the product. There is also no assurance that the Company and Elan will be able to resume marketing and sales of TYSABRI.
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with these forward looking statements and the Company's other activities, see the periodic reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
The non-GAAP financial measures presented below are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
Adjustments were made to conform prior periods to current year presentation including adoption of EITF 03-06, which requires allocation of income to certain holders of equity and debt instruments.
 


