FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20060726074248.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 26, 2006, the registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended June 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such documents be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 26, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Page 1     Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2006 Results
Media Contact: Jose Juves Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Elizabeth Woo Vice President, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, July 26, 2006  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology company with leading products and capabilities in oncology, neurology and immunology, today reported its second quarter 2006 results.
Second Quarter 2006 Highlights
 
Page 2     Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2006 Results
disability and reduce the frequency of clinical relapses. Recently, patient dosing has begun in both Europe and the U.S.
James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer, commented, "The core businesses demonstrated double-digit growth in the second quarter, driven by strong AVONEX and RITUXAN performance. With TYSABRI recently approved in both the US and Europe, this important therapeutic option is now available to the multiple sclerosis community. We expect TYSABRI will enhance our neurology business and begin to accelerate top-line growth over the coming quarters. Additionally, we completed two acquisitions of private companies this quarter and continue to focus on business development opportunities."
Financial Performance
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported a net loss of $171 million (or loss per share of $0.50) in the second quarter of 2006 (Q2 2005: net income of $35 million, or EPS of $0.10).
On a non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported non-GAAP EPS of $0.57 for the second quarter of 2006 (Q2 2005 non-GAAP EPS: $0.43). Non-GAAP net income was $197 million in the second quarter of 2006 (Q2 2005 non-GAAP net income: $149 million).
The differences between non-GAAP net income and EPS and GAAP net income and EPS in the second quarter are itemized in Table 3 and are primarily due to:
Revenue Performance for the 3 Months ended June 30, 2006
 
Page 3     Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2006 Results
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec continues to expect that its 2006 non-GAAP earnings per share will be in the range of $1.95-$2.10.
Guidance for full year 2006 reported earnings per share (GAAP-based financial measure) is not currently known, as the Company cannot predict with any certainty the nature or the amount of non-operating or unusual charges for subsequent quarters. The Company does anticipate that certain charges related to purchase accounting will be included in the GAAP financials, such as the write-off of acquired in-process R&D ($331 million recorded in the current quarter) and amortization of intangibles of approximately $250-$330 million, primarily related to the AVONEX intangibles. Separately, the impact of stock options being expensed due to FAS 123R in 2006 continues to be estimated to be in the range of $0.08  $0.12. Additionally, the Company anticipates that it may have to take other charges in subsequent quarters and that such charges, if material, would cause reported earnings per share to further differ from non-GAAP earnings per share.
The Company continues to anticipate that 2006 capital expenditures will be in the range of $190-$275 million.
Recent Highlights
 
Page 4     Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2006 Results
treatment of psoriasis, and BG-12, a clinical-stage compound that has been jointly developed with Biogen Idec.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this press release are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance such as charges related to in-process R&D, amortization of intangibles, inventory step-up values, and employee stock option expense. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Company's business over time. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures.
 
Page 5     Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2006 Results
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the second quarter will be broadcast via the Internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on July 26, 2006, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, .
http://www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) creates new standards of care in oncology, neurology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
http://www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future financial results, including future growth rates, non-GAAP EPS and capital expenditures, and the potential for TYSABRI in MS and RITUXAN in RA.
A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially. For example, financial results and external growth opportunities may be affected by a number of factors, including any unexpected slowness in the demand for TYSABRI, AVONEX, RITUXAN and ZEVALIN, the impact of reimbursement and pricing decisions related to the Company's products, the impact of competitive products on the Company's products, any material decreases in royalties which the Company receives, the impact of litigation, increases in costs related to or an inability for us to enter into in-licensing deals, collaborations or acquisitions on acceptable terms, increases in costs related to research and development of new products as well as increases in costs related to development of existing products in new indications, and any material issues, delays or failures related to the manufacturing or supply of the Company's products.
The potential for TYSABRI is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's current expectations include the risk that the incidence and/or risk of PML or other opportunistic infections in patients treated with TYSABRI may be higher than observed in clinical trials, that TYSABRI may not be accepted by the medical community and patients, or that the Company may encounter other unexpected issues.
Our long-term growth will depend on the successful development and commercialization of new products, such as BG-12, as well as the development and commercialization of existing products in new indications. Drug development involves a high degree of risk. For example, the plans for our development programs could be negatively affected if unexpected concerns arise from additional data or analysis, if regulatory authorities require additional information or further studies, or if we were to encounter other unexpected hurdles.
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with these forward looking statements and the Company's other activities, see "Risk Factors" in the
 
Page 6     Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2006 Results
Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2006 and the other periodic and current reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
Shares used in calculating adjustments to net loss and diluted non-GAAP earnings per share are 348,730,000 and 348,222,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2006, respectively.
The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this table are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Company's business over time. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.


