FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20060309095645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     
Item 8.01
Other Events
     On March 8, 2006, the Registrant and Elan Corporation, plc publicly disseminated a press release announcing that the Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration voted unanimously to recommend reintroduction of TYSABRI (natalizumab) as a treatment for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. The information contained in the press release is incorporated herein by reference and filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
     
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 9, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
 Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) and Elan Corporation, plc (NYSE: ELN) announced today that the Peripheral and Central Nervous System Drugs Advisory Committee of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) voted unanimously to recommend reintroduction of TYSABRI (natalizumab) as a treatment for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS).
GAITHERSBURG, MD  March 8, 2006
The Committee's recommendation is advisory to the FDA, and the agency is not bound by this recommendation. The FDA has designated TYSABRI for Priority Review, a status for products that are considered to be significant therapeutic advancements over existing therapies that address an unmet medical need. Biogen Idec and Elan will continue to work closely with the FDA in the weeks ahead with the goal of making TYSABRI available. Discussions with FDA will include, among other things, finalizing the details of the TYSABRI risk management plan. The companies anticipate action by the FDA by March 29, 2006.
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in oncology, neurology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
About Biogen Idec
www.biogenidec.com
 
     
Page 2
FDA Advisory Committee Unanimously Recommends Reintroduction of TYSABRI
 
Elan Corporation, plc is a neuroscience-based biotechnology company committed to making a difference in the lives of patients and their families by dedicating itself to bringing innovations in science to fill significant unmet medical needs that continue to exist around the world. Elan shares trade on the New York, London and Dublin Stock Exchanges. For additional information about the company, please visit .
About Elan
www.elan.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the potential and regulatory path forward of TYSABRI. The commercial potential and regulatory path forward of TYSABRI are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the companies' current expectations include the risk that we may unable to adequately address concerns or questions raised by FDA or European regulatory authorities during the regulatory review process, that concerns may arise from additional data or analysis, or that the companies may encounter other unexpected delays or hurdles. There is also no assurance that the companies will be able to resume marketing and sales of TYSABRI. Drug development and commercialization involves a high degree of risk. For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with the companies' drug development and other activities, see the periodic reports that Biogen Idec and Elan have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The companies assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Safe Harbor/Forward Looking Statements


