FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20060426073007.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 26, 2006, the Registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended March 31, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
     This press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such documents be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 26, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Page 1 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2006 Results
Media Contact: Jose Juves Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Elizabeth Woo Vice President, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, April 26, 2006  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader with leading products and capabilities in oncology, neurology and immunology, today reported its first quarter 2006 results.
First Quarter 2006 Highlights
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2006 Results
James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer, commented, "During the quarter we took several key steps to secure the continued growth of our core business, specifically achieving major milestones with two products, TYSABRI and RITUXAN. We are pleased with the unanimous vote by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Advisory Committee supporting the reintroduction of TYSABRI and expect to have this important therapeutic option available to multiple sclerosis patients later this year. The approval and launch of RITUXAN in rheumatoid arthritis has allowed us to expand our business focus and enter a therapeutic area with significant unmet medical need."
Financial Performance
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $123 million (or EPS of $0.36) in the first quarter of 2006 (Q1 2005: net income of $43 million, or EPS of $0.12).
The 2006 first quarter results include an after-tax credit of $4 million ($0.01 per share after-tax) attributable to the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle associated with the adoption of FAS 123R on January 1, 2006. The cumulative effect adjustment reflects the impact of estimating forfeitures of equity awards at the date of grant instead of the prior accounting practice of recognizing forfeitures as incurred.
The difference between non-GAAP net income and EPS and GAAP net income and EPS in the first quarter are itemized in Table 3 and are primarily due to:
On a non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income of $189 million in the first quarter of 2006 (Q1 2005 non-GAAP: $106 million). Non-GAAP EPS were $0.55 for the first quarter of 2006 (Q1 2005 non-GAAP: $0.30).
Revenue Performance for the 3 Months ended March 31, 2006:
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2006 Results
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec continues to expect that its 2006 non-GAAP earnings per share will be in the range of $1.95  $2.10.
Guidance for full year 2006 reported earnings per share (GAAP-based financial measure) is not currently known, as the Company cannot predict with any certainty the nature or the amount of non-operating or unusual charges for subsequent quarters. The Company does anticipate that certain charges related to purchase accounting will be included in the GAAP financials, such as amortization of intangibles of approximately $250  330 million, primarily related to the AVONEX intangibles. Separately, the impact of stock options being expensed due to FAS 123R in 2006 is now estimated to be in the range of $0.08  $0.12. The Company additionally anticipates that it may have to take other charges in subsequent quarters and that such charges, if material, would cause reported earnings per share to further differ from non-GAAP earnings per share.
The Company anticipates that 2006 capital expenditures will be in the range of $190  $275 million.
Recent Highlights
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2006 Results
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this press release are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance such as charges related to amortization of intangibles, inventory step-up values, and employee stock option expense. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Company's business over time. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures.
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the first quarter will be broadcast via the Internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on April 26, 2006, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, .
http://www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) creates new standards of care in oncology, neurology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
http://www.biogenidec.com
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2006 Results
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future financial results, including non-GAAP EPS and capital expenditures, the potential reintroduction of TYSABRI in MS, and the potential for RITUXAN in RA.
These statements are based on the Company's current beliefs and expectations. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially. For example, financial results and external growth opportunities may be affected by a number of factors, including any unexpected slowing of growth of the markets for AVONEX and RITUXAN, any change in market acceptance of AVONEX and RITUXAN in key markets worldwide, the impact of reimbursement and pricing decisions related to the Company's products, the impact of competitive products on the Company's products, any material decreases in royalties which the Company receives, the impact of litigation, increases in costs related to, or an inability for us to enter into in-licensing deals, collaborations or acquisitions on acceptable terms, increases in costs related to research and development of new products as well as increases in costs related to development of existing products in new indications, and any material issues, delays or failures related to the manufacturing or supply of the Company's products.
Our long-term growth will depend on the successful development and commercialization of new products as well as the development and commercialization of existing products in new indications. Drug development involves a high degree of risk. For example, the plans for our development programs could be negatively affected if unexpected concerns arise from additional data or analysis, if regulatory authorities require additional information or further studies, or if we were to encounter other unexpected hurdles.
The potential for TYSABRI in MS is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. There is no assurance, for example, that we will be able to gain sufficient information to fully understand the risks associated with the product. There is also no assurance that the Company and Elan will be able to resume marketing and sales of TYSABRI.
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with these forward looking statements and the Company's other activities, see the periodic reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this table are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Company's business over time. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.


