FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20060215165121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Definitive Material Agreement
     On February 14, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Registrant's Board of Directors approved grants of 20,000 options for the purchase of the Registrant's common stock and 8,000 restricted stock units to be settled in shares of the Registrant's common stock to Susan H. Alexander, Executive Vice President, General Counsel. The grants were made under the Registrant's 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan. The restricted stock units vest as to 33 1/3% of the units upon Ms. Alexander's completion of one year of service with the Registrant from the date of grant, and as to an additional 33 1/3% for each year of service thereafter, until fully vested, except as otherwise provided in the 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan. The stock options vest as to 25% of the shares upon Ms. Alexander's completion of one year of service with the Registrant from the date of grant, and as to an additional 25% of the shares for each year of service thereafter, until fully vested, except as otherwise provided in the 2005 Omnibus Equity Plan. The exercise price for the stock options is $44.38, the closing price of the Registrant's common stock on February 14, 2006.
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes information with respect to the Registrant's adjusted non-GAAP earnings per share and net income for the fourth quarter and the full year of 2005 and 2004. These are non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures are utilized by management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Registrant's business. The Registrant's management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Registrant's business or the prospects of future performance such as charges related to purchased in-process research and development, amortization of intangibles, inventory step-up values, in period costs of sales and certain litigation. The Registrant's management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that these non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Registrant's business over time. The presentation of this information in the press release is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures.
     This press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such documents be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 15, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Page 1 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2005 Results
Media Contact: Jose Juves Associate Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Elizabeth Woo Vice President, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, February 15, 2006  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader with leading products and capabilities in oncology, neurology and immunology, today reported its full year 2005 and fourth quarter results.
Full Year & Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2005 Results
James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer, commented, "Our discipline and successful execution in 2005 led to very robust performance of the core business resulting in strong revenue and bottom line growth, despite a challenging year. We anticipate major approvals for RITUXAN in rheumatoid arthritis and TYSABRI in multiple sclerosis in 2006."
Financial Performance
On an adjusted non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income of $165 million in the fourth quarter of 2005 and $542 million for the full year 2005. Adjusted non-GAAP EPS was $0.48 for the fourth quarter of 2005 and $1.57 for the full year 2005. These adjustments are itemized on Table 3.
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $56 million (or EPS of $0.16) in the fourth quarter of 2005 and net income of $161 million (or EPS of $0.47) for the full year 2005. The difference between adjusted non-GAAP net income and EPS and GAAP net income and EPS in the fourth quarter were primarily due to:
Revenue Performance
Revenues from AVONEX, Biogen Idec's therapy for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), increased 12% in the fourth quarter to $413 million. Full year AVONEX sales increased 9% to $1.54 billion. In 2005, U.S. sales were $939 million and international sales increased 22% to $604 million.
Revenues for the fourth quarter of 2005 and full year 2005 included $182 million and $709 million, respectively, from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement with Genentech, Inc. related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits on a quarterly basis. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $484 million in the fourth quarter (Q4 2004: $429 million) and $1.83 billion for the full year (2004: $1.57 billion), as reported by Genentech.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2005 Results
Royalties were $22 million in the fourth quarter and $93 million for the full year.
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec expects that its 2006 non-GAAP earnings per share estimates, excluding the impact of stock option expensing (FAS123R), will be in the range of $1.95  $2.10. The impact of FAS123R for 2006 is estimated to be in the range of $0.06  $0.09.
The Company anticipates that 2006 capital expenditures will be in the range of $190  $275 million.
Guidance for full year 2006 reported earnings per share (GAAP-based financial measure) is not currently known, as the Company cannot predict with any certainty the nature or the amount of non-operating or unusual charges for subsequent quarters. The Company does anticipate that certain charges related to Purchase Accounting will be included in the GAAP financials, such as amortization of intangibles (approximately $300  330 million or approximately $0.64  0.71 per share, primarily related to the AVONEX intangibles). The Company additionally anticipates that it may have to take other charges in subsequent quarters and that such charges, if material, would cause reported earnings per share to further differ from non-GAAP earnings per share.
Recent Highlights
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2005 Results
placebo. This Phase II multi-center, double-blind, placebo-controlled study enrolled approximately 250 patients at sites in 10 countries in Europe.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this press release are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance such as charges related to purchased in-process research and development, amortization of intangibles, inventory step-up values, in period costs of sales and certain litigation. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Company's business over time. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the fourth quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 5:00 p.m. ET on February 15, 2005, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, .
http://www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2005 Results
Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) creates new standards of care in oncology, neurology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit http://www.biogenidec.com.
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future financial results, including non-GAAP EPS and capital expenditures, external growth opportunities, pipeline growth, and the potential for TYSABRI in MS and RITUXAN in RA.
These statements are based on the Company's current beliefs and expectations. A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially. For example, financial results and external growth opportunities may be affected by a number of factors, including any unexpected slowing of growth of the markets for AVONEX and RITUXAN, any change in market acceptance of AVONEX and RITUXAN in key markets worldwide, the impact of reimbursement and pricing decisions related to the Company's products, the impact of competitive products on the Company's products, any material decreases in sales by licensees of products on which the Company receives royalties, the impact of litigation, increases in costs related to, or an inability for us to enter into in-licensing deals, collaborations or acquisitions on acceptable terms, increases in costs related to research and development of new products as well as increases in costs related to development of existing products in new indications, an inability for us to achieve acceptable terms from third parties for assets which have been proposed for divestment, and any material issues, delays or failures related to the manufacturing or supply of the Company's products.
Our long-term growth will depend on the successful development and commercialization of new products as well as the development and commercialization of existing products in new indications (such as RITUXAN in RA). Drug development involves a high degree of risk. For example, the plans for our development programs could be negatively affected if unexpected concerns arise from additional data or analysis, if regulatory authorities require additional information or further studies, or if we were to encounter other unexpected hurdles.
The potential for TYSABRI in MS is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. There is no assurance, for example, that we will be able to gain sufficient information to fully understand the risks associated with the product. There is also no assurance that the Company and Elan will be able to resume marketing and sales of TYSABRI.
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with these forward looking statements and the Company's other activities, see the periodic reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
     
The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this table are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance such as charges related to purchased in-process research and development, amortization of intangibles, inventory step-up values, in period costs of sales and certain litigation. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Company's business over time. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures. Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
     Adjustments were made to conform prior periods to current year presentation including adoption of EITF 03-06, which requires allocation of income to certain holders of equity and debt instruments.
 


