FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20061031073710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
      On October 31, 2006, the registrant issued a press release announcing its unaudited results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended September 30, 2006. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
      On October 31, 2006, the registrant posted presentation slides on its corporate website in connection with an earnings conference and webcast. A copy of the presentation is furnished as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
      The press release and presentation slides are being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
99.1 Registrant's press release dated October 31, 2006. 99.2 Registrant's presentation dated October 31, 2006.
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Jose Juves Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Elizabeth Woo Vice President, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, October 31, 2006  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology company with leading products and capabilities in oncology, neurology and immunology, today reported its third quarter 2006 results.
Third Quarter 2006 Highlights
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2006 Results
James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer, commented, "Robust double-digit growth, driven by strong AVONEX and RITUXAN performance, continues to define our business. Returning TYSABRI to the MS community was a remarkable achievement, and we expect this will enhance our neurology franchise and begin to accelerate top-line growth over the coming quarters. In keeping with our strategic plan, we made key investments in our pipeline this quarter, including three collaboration agreements, building on the momentum of last quarter's two acquisitions."
Financial Performance
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported earnings per diluted share of $0.45 for the third quarter of 2006 (Q3 2005 diluted EPS was $0.08). Net income was $157 million in the third quarter of 2006 (Q3 2005 net income was $27 million).
On a non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported non-GAAP EPS of $0.60 for the third quarter of 2006 (Q3 2005 non-GAAP diluted EPS was $0.36). Non-GAAP net income was $207 million in the third quarter of 2006 (Q3 2005 non-GAAP net income was $122 million).
The differences between non-GAAP net income and EPS, and GAAP net income and EPS in the third quarter are itemized in Table 3, and are primarily due to:
Revenue Performance for the Three Months ended September 30, 2006
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2006 Results
Share Repurchase Program
In October, Biogen Idec's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 20 million shares of its common stock. The repurchased stock will provide the Company with authorized shares for general corporate purposes, such as stock to be issued under employee stock option and stock purchase plans. The share buyback will largely be funded through operating cash flow and is expected to be accretive to EPS.
The Company had approximately 336 million shares of common stock outstanding at the end of Q3 2006.
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec is raising full year 2006 non-GAAP earnings per share guidance to exceed $2.20. This assumes ongoing business development activity for the remainder of the year at a similar level to third quarter 2006.
Guidance for full year 2006 reported earnings per share (GAAP-based financial measure) is estimated to exceed $0.65, excluding any future acquisitions or other transactions. The Company cannot predict with certainty the nature or the amount of non-operating or unusual charges for the fourth quarter. The Company does anticipate in its full year estimate that certain charges related to purchase accounting for completed transactions will be included in the GAAP financials, such as the write-off of acquired in-process R&D ($331 million), amortization of intangibles (approximately $270 million, gain on settlement of existing collaboration agreement ($34 million), and inventory step up (approximately $8 million). In addition, the impact of stock options being expensed due to FAS 123R in 2006 is estimated to be in the range of $50-60 million, or approximately $0.10  $0.12 per diluted share. Additionally, the Company anticipates that it may have to take other charges in the fourth quarter and that such charges, if material, would cause reported earnings per share to further differ from non-GAAP earnings per share.
The Company now anticipates that 2006 capital expenditures will be in the range of $190  $220 million.
Recent Highlights
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2006 Results
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this press release are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2006 Results
future performance such as charges related to in-process R&D, amortization of intangibles, inventory step-up values, and employee stock option expense. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Company's business over time. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures.
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the third quarter will be broadcast via the Internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on October 31, 2006, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, .
http://www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) creates new standards of care in oncology, neurology and immunology. As a global leader in the development, manufacturing, and commercialization of novel therapies, Biogen Idec transforms scientific discoveries into advances in human healthcare. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
http://www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future financial results, including revenue growth rates, EPS, capital expenditures, the potential for TYSABRI in MS, and the Company's share repurchase program.
A number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially. For example, financial results and external growth opportunities may be affected by a number of factors, including any unexpected slowness in the demand for TYSABRI, AVONEX, and RITUXAN, the impact of reimbursement and pricing decisions related to the Company's products, the impact of competitive products on the Company's products, any material decreases in royalties which the Company receives, the impact of litigation, increases in costs related to or an inability for us to enter into in-licensing deals, collaborations or acquisitions on acceptable terms, increases in costs related to research and development of new products as well as increases in costs related to development of existing products in new indications, and any material issues, delays or failures related to the manufacturing or supply of the Company's products.
The potential for TYSABRI is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from the Company's current expectations include the risk that the incidence and/or risk of PML or other opportunistic infections in patients treated with TYSABRI may be higher than observed in clinical trials, that TYSABRI may not be accepted by the medical community and patients, or that the Company may encounter other unexpected issues.
Our long-term growth will depend on the successful development and commercialization of new products, such as CDP323 and Aviptadil, as well as the development and commercialization of existing products in new indications. Drug development involves a high degree of risk. For example, the plans for our development programs could be
 
Page 6 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2006 Results
negatively affected if unexpected concerns arise from additional data or analysis, if regulatory authorities require additional information or further studies, or if we were to encounter other unexpected hurdles.
For more detailed information on the risks and uncertainties associated with these forward looking statements and the Company's other activities, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006 and the other periodic and current reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this table are utilized by Biogen Idec management to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company. Management believes that the non-GAAP financial measures are useful because they exclude those non-operational activities or transactions that are not necessarily relevant to understanding the trends of the Company or the prospects of future performance. Management uses these measures to establish operational goals and believes that non-GAAP measures may assist investors in analyzing the underlying trends in the Company's business over time. The presentation of this information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for GAAP financial measures.
 
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


