FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20070813154825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
          On August 7, 2007, the Board of Directors of Biogen Idec Inc. (the "Company") appointed Paul J. Clancy as its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective August 13, 2007. Mr. Clancy will serve until his successor is named. As the Company previously disclosed, Peter N. Kellogg has resigned as Chief Financial Officer, effective August 13, 2007.
          Mr. Clancy, age 45, joined Biogen, Inc. in 2001. Since that time, he has held a number of senior executive positions at Biogen Inc. and the Company, including Vice President of Business Planning, Vice President Portfolio Management and Vice President US Marketing. Most recently, Mr. Clancy has served as Senior Vice President of Finance. From 1987 to 2000, he served in a variety of senior financial and general management positions at PepsiCo and Pepsi Bottling Group. Mr. Clancy holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Finance from Babson College and a Master of Business Administration degree from Columbia Business School.
          Under the terms of an offer letter that Mr. Clancy entered into upon his promotion, his base salary will be $450,000 and he is eligible to participate in the Company's annual bonus plan with a target bonus of 50% of his annualized base salary. The offer letter also provides that Mr. Clancy will receive 8,000 restricted stock units and an option to purchase 20,000 shares of the Company's common stock, each award to be made on the first trading day of the month following his promotion. The restricted stock units will vest and convert into shares of the Company's common stock at a rate of 1/3 per year for three years, beginning on the first anniversary of the grant. The exercise price of the option will be equal to the closing price of the Company's stock as reported on the Nasdaq Global Market on the grant date, and the option will vest equally over four years at a rate of 25% per year, beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date.
                    Under the executive severance plan for executive vice presidents, Mr. Clancy will be entitled to receive:
          Mr. Clancy is also entitled to continuation of group medical and dental insurance if severance is payable under the severance plan for executive vice presidents. In addition, if a payment to Mr. Clancy is subject to excise tax under the Internal Revenue Code, the executive
 
severance arrangements provide that the Company will pay Mr. Clancy an additional amount such that the amount retained by him will be equal to the net amount of payments which would have been received by him absent application of the excise tax.
          A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Clancy's appointment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The press release is being furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
          (d) Exhibits
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 13, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
For More Information Contact:
Naomi Aoki Director, Public Affairs (617) 914-6524
Biogen Idec Media Contact:
Elizabeth Woo Vice President, Investor Relations (617) 679-2812
Biogen Idec Investor Relations Contact:
 Biogen Idec (NASDAQ: BIIB) announced today that Paul Clancy has been appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective August 13, 2007. He reports directly to James C. Mullen, the company's Chief Executive Officer.
Cambridge, MA (August 9, 2007)
"Paul brings more than 20 years of experience in financial management and strategic business planning," Mullen said, "In his six years at Biogen Idec, he has repeatedly proven himself to be an effective and valued leader. With Paul's help, we will continue to optimize shareholder value by driving our strategic and operational plans."
Clancy is currently Senior Vice President of Finance, with responsibilities for leading the Treasury, Tax, Investor Relations and Business Planning groups. He has held several senior executive positions since joining the company in 2001, including Vice President of Business Planning, Portfolio Management and US Marketing. Prior to joining the company, he spent 13 years at PepsiCo, serving in a range of financial and general management positions.
Clancy received his MBA from Columbia Business School in New York City and his BS in Business Administration at Babson College in Wellesley, MA.
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Announces Paul J. Clancy Chief Financial Officer
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
About Biogen Idec
www.biogenidec.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements in the comments from James Mullen, our CEO. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from that which we expect. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ are described in our most recent Form 10-Q filing with the SEC. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Safe Harbor


