FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20071023073758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 23, 2007, the registrant issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended September 30, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 23, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Naomi Aoki Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Keith Regnante Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, October 23, 2007  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today reported its third quarter 2007 results.
Third Quarter 2007 Highlights:
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results
"The year is unfolding as planned, and we are well on track to hitting the 2007 financial guidance that we revised upward this summer," said James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer.
Financial Performance
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $119 million (or diluted EPS of $0.41) in the third quarter of 2007. On a non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income of $170 million in the third quarter of 2007. Non-GAAP diluted EPS were $0.58 for the third quarter of 2007. Both the GAAP and non-GAAP earnings figures for the third quarter 2007 include a $50 million, or $0.11 diluted EPS, R&D expense due to an upfront license payment to Cardiokine.
The reconciling items of note between GAAP net income and diluted GAAP EPS and non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted EPS in the third quarter, as itemized in Table 3 within this press release, were primarily as follows:
Revenue Performance
Revenues from AVONEX, the world's most prescribed therapy for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), increased 2% in the third quarter to $455 million as compared with the prior year quarter. U.S. sales were $266 million and international sales increased 7% to $189 million.
Revenues for the third quarter 2007 included $235 million from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech Inc. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $572 million in the third quarter (Q3 2006 were $509 million), as reported by Genentech.
During the third quarter of 2007, Biogen Idec recognized revenue of $63 million related to TYSABRI. This amount is comprised of:
As of the end of September 2007, approximately 17,000 patients are on TYSABRI therapy worldwide in the commercial and clinical trials settings.
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results
Revenue from FUMADERM (fumaric acid esters) in the third quarter of 2007 was $7 million. Biogen Idec recognized $5 million in sales of FUMADERM in Q2 2007. Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalty revenues were $24 million and $22 million in the third quarter 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Share Repurchase Program
Biogen Idec did not repurchase any shares in the third quarter 2007 under the 20 million share repurchase program authorized by Biogen Idec's Board of Directors in October 2006.
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec today reiterated its guidance for the full year 2007, including:
Full year 2007 GAAP diluted EPS is estimated to be in the range of $1.84-$1.94 versus $0.63 per share in 2006. This estimate excludes future acquisitions or transactions. In order to reconcile GAAP and non-GAAP EPS guidance, we have excluded the following items from our non-GAAP EPS guidance provided above:
Because the Company cannot predict with certainty the nature or the amount of non-operating or unusual charges for 2007, we have made no assumption regarding future purchase accounting
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results
charges in this GAAP guidance. The Company may incur charges or realize income in 2007 that could cause actual results to vary from this guidance.
Recent Highlights
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income" and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures are defined as reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS excluding, for the reasons discussed below, (1) purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments, (2) stock option expense and the
 
Page 6 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results
cumulative effect of an accounting change relating to the initial adoption of SFAS No. 123R and (3) other items. We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they: better represent the ongoing economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Accordingly, we believe investors' understanding of the Company's financial performance is enhanced as a result of our disclosing these non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS.
Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude certain purchase accounting impacts such as those related to the merger with Biogen, Inc. (the "Merger"), the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics and Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and the consolidation of Cardiokine. These include charges for in process research and development and the incremental charge to cost of goods sold from our sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value at the acquisition date. Also excluded are the incremental charges related to the amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges allows management and investors an alternative view of our financial results "as if" the acquired intangible asset had been developed internally rather than acquired and, therefore, provides a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
Stock option expense and the cumulative effect of an accounting change relating to the initial adoption of SFAS No. 123R  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude the impact of our stock option expense recorded in accordance with SFAS No. 123R and the cumulative effect of an accounting change relating to its initial adoption. We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our integrated business. We do include the P&L impact of restricted stock awards and other cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
Other items  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude other unusual or non-recurring items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Our evaluation of whether to exclude an item for purposes of determining our non-GAAP financial measures considers both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including, among other things (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis. Items excluded for purposes of determining non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS are restructuring charges, a gain on sale of long-lived assets, the gain on settlement of license agreements with Fumapharm AG, and the tax effects of these adjustments.
The Company has reconciled the GAAP net income and diluted EPS for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2007 and 2006 to the non-GAAP measures of net income and diluted EPS in Table 3 of this press release.
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the third quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET onOctober 23, 2007, and will be accessible through the investor relations section
rd
 
Page 7 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2007 Results
of Biogen Idec's homepage, . Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call, and will remain on the Biogen Idec website through at least November 30, 2007.
www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which appear under the heading "Financial Guidance", "Revenue Performance", and "Recent Highlights" above and in the comments from James Mullen, our CEO. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from that which we expect. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ include our continued dependence on our two principal products, AVONEX and RITUXAN, the uncertainty of success in commercializing other products including TYSABRI, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, the outcome of our current evaluation of a potential acquisition of the Company, the failure to execute our growth strategy successfully or to compete effectively in our markets, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, possible adverse impact of government regulation and changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, fluctuations in our operating results, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, the risks of doing business internationally and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in Item 1.A. Risk Factors in our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in other periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
An itemized reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and net income on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.


