FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20070502072326.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
  
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On May 2, 2007, the registrant issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
  
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
           (d) Exhibits
99.1     Registrant's press release dated May 2, 2007.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: May 2, 2007
Table of Contents

 
Page 1      Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2007 Results
Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Jose Juves Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Elizabeth Woo Vice President, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, May 2, 2007  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today reported its first quarter 2007 results.
First Quarter 2007 Highlights:
 
Page 2      Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2007 Results
"Overall, the first quarter results met our expectations. Especially notable are the corporate market share gains in the multiple sclerosis market and the steady growth of TYSABRI sales," said James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer.
Financial Performance
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $132 million (or diluted EPS of $0.38) in the first quarter of 2007.
On a non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income of $202 million in the first quarter of 2007. Non-GAAP diluted EPS were $0.59 for the first quarter of 2007.
The reconciling items between GAAP net income and diluted GAAP EPS and adjusted non-GAAP net income and diluted non-GAAP EPS in the first quarter, as itemized in Table 3 within this press release, were primarily as follows:
Revenue Performance
Revenues from AVONEX, Biogen Idec's therapy for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), increased 14% in the first quarter to $449 million. U.S. sales increased 16% to $270 million and international sales increased 11% to $179 million.
Revenues for the first quarter 2007 included $207 million from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech, Inc. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $535 million in the first quarter (Q1 2006: $477 million), as reported by Genentech.
During the first quarter of 2007, Biogen Idec recognized revenue of $30 million related to TYSABRI. This amount is comprised of:
 
Page 3      Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2007 Results
As of mid-April 2007, approximately 12,500 patients have been prescribed TYSABRI worldwide. Over 10,000 patients are on TYSABRI therapy worldwide in the commercial and clinical trials settings.
Revenues from other products in the first quarter of 2007 were $6 million (Q1 2006: $13 million). Biogen Idec did not recognize any revenue in Q1 2007 related to sales of FUMADERM (fumaric acid esters). In connection with the acquisition of Fumedica's distribution rights, Biogen Idec expects to record FUMADERM revenues starting in the second quarter 2007 following Biogen Idec's takeover of distribution rights. Prior year revenues included AMEVIVE(alefacept), which has since been divested.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalties were $23 million and $21 million in the first quarter 2007 and 2006, respectively.
Share Repurchase Program
Biogen Idec did not repurchase any shares in first quarter 2007 under the 20 million share repurchase program authorized by Biogen Idec's Board of Directors in October 2006.
Financial Guidance
See Biogen Idec's full year 2006 earnings press release for additional financial guidance details.
Recent Highlights
 
Page 4      Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2007 Results
 
Page 5      Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2007 Results
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income" and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures are defined as reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS excluding, for the reasons discussed below, (1) purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments, (2) stock option expense and the cumulative effect of an accounting change relating to the initial adoption of SFAS No. 123R and (3) other items. Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to establish financial goals and to gain an understanding of the comparative financial performance of the Company from year to year and quarter to quarter. Accordingly, we believe investors' understanding of the Company's financial performance is enhanced as a result of our disclosing these non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS.
 
Page 6      Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2007 Results
The Company has reconciled the GAAP net income and diluted EPS for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 to the non-GAAP measures of net income and diluted EPS in Table 3 of this press release.
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the first quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on May 2, 2007, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, . Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call, and will remain on the Biogen Idec website through at least May 31, 2007.
nd
www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit, .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which appear under the heading "Financial Guidance", "Revenue Performance", and "Recent Highlights" above and in the comments from James Mullen, our CEO. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from that which we expect. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ include our continued dependence on our two principal products, AVONEX and RITUXAN, the uncertainty of success in commercializing other products including the launch of TYSABRI, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, the failure to execute our growth strategy successfully or to compete effectively in our markets, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, possible adverse impact of government regulation and changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, fluctuations in our operating results, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, the risks of doing business internationally and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in our most recent Form 10-K filing with the SEC. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.


