FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20080206074456.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On February 6, 2008, the registrant issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the full year and three months ended December 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
     (d) Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 6, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Page 1 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
Media Contact: Naomi Aoki Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Keith Regnante Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, February 6, 2008  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today reported its full year and fourth quarter 2007 results.
Full Year 2007 Highlights:
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer, commented, "We're extremely proud of our accomplishments in 2007. We grew revenues by 18% and non-GAAP earnings per share by 22%; we delivered on our four-year growth targets; and we advanced and expanded our pipeline. We're confident 2008 will be another year of strong financial performance and many meaningful clinical data readouts."
Fourth Quarter 2007 Highlights:
Financial Performance
On a non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income of $266 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 and $879 million for the full year 2007. Non-GAAP diluted EPS were $0.89 for the fourth quarter of 2007 and $2.74 for the full year 2007.
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $201 million (or diluted EPS of $0.67) in the fourth quarter of 2007 and net income of $638 million (or diluted EPS of $1.99) for the full year 2007. The reconciling items between GAAP net income and diluted GAAP EPS and adjusted non-GAAP net income and diluted non-GAAP EPS in the fourth quarter, as itemized in Table 3 within this press release, were primarily as follows:
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
Revenue Performance
Revenues from AVONEX, the worldwide leading therapy for patients with relapsing forms of MS, increased 15% in the fourth quarter to $503 million. Full year AVONEX sales increased 9% to $1.87 billion. In 2007, U.S. sales increased 6% to $1.09 billion and international sales increased 14% to $783 million.
Revenues for the fourth quarter and full year 2007 included $254 million and $926 million, respectively, from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech, Inc. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $596 million in the fourth quarter (Q4 2006: $560 million) and $2.29 billion for the full year (2006: $2.07 billion), as reported by Genentech.
During the fourth quarter of 2007, Biogen Idec recognized revenue of $90 million related to TYSABRI. This amount is comprised of:
As of late December 2007, more than 21,000 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide. To date, the safety data continues to support a favorable benefit-risk profile for TYSABRI. According to data available as of late December 2007:
Revenues from other products in the fourth quarter of 2007 were $12 million (Q4 2006: $7 million). Current revenues now include FUMADERM (fumaric acid esters) obtained in connection with the Fumapharm acquisition and also ZEVALIN (ibritumomab tiuxetan), which was recently sold to Cell Therapeutics.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
Royalties were $33 million in the fourth quarter and $102 million for the full year 2007.
Financial Guidance
Following its strong performance in 2007, Biogen Idec reiterated its 2008 financial guidance which is consistent with achieving the company's long term business plan:
Since the Company cannot predict with certainty the nature or the amount of non-operating or unusual charges for 2008, we have made no assumptions regarding other such charges in this GAAP guidance. The Company may incur charges or realize gains in 2008 that could cause actual results to vary from this guidance.
Recent Events
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
 
Page 6 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income" and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures are defined as reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS excluding, for the reasons discussed below, (1) purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments, (2) stock option expense and the cumulative effect of an accounting change relating to the initial adoption of SFAS 123R and (3) other items. We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they: better represent the ongoing
 
Page 7 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Accordingly, we believe investors' understanding of the Company's financial performance is enhanced as a result of our disclosing these non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS.
Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude certain purchase accounting impacts such as those related to the merger with Biogen, Inc. (the "Merger"), the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics and Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and the consolidation of Cardiokine, Neurimmune, and Escoublac. These include charges for in process research and development and the incremental charge to cost of goods sold from our sale of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value at the acquisition date. Also excluded are the incremental charges related to the amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges allows management and investors an alternative view of our financial results "as if" the acquired intangible asset had been developed internally rather than acquired and, therefore, provides a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
Stock option expense and the cumulative effect of an accounting change relating to the initial adoption of SFAS 123R  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude the impact of our stock option expense recorded in accordance with SFAS 123R and the cumulative effect of an accounting change relating to its initial adoption. We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our integrated business. We do include the P&L impact of restricted stock awards and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
Other items  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude other unusual or non-recurring items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Our evaluation of whether to exclude an item for purposes of determining our non-GAAP financial measures considers both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including, among other things (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis. Items excluded for purposes of determining non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS are restructuring charges, a net gain on sale of long-lived assets and impairments, the gain/loss on settlement of license agreements with Fumedica and Fumapharm AG, and the tax effects of these adjustments.
The Company has reconciled the GAAP net income and diluted EPS for the three-month and twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 to the non-GAAP measures of net income and diluted EPS in Table 3 of this press release.
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the fourth quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on February 6, 2008, and will be accessible through the investor
 
Page 8 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, . Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available on our web site subsequently through February 29, 2008.
http://www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which appear under the heading "Financial Guidance", "Revenue Performance", and "Recent Highlights" above and in the comments from James Mullen, our CEO. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from that which we expect. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ include our continued dependence on our two principal products, AVONEX and RITUXAN, the uncertainty of success in commercializing other products including TYSABRI, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, the consequences of the nomination of directors for election to our Board by an activist shareholder, the failure to execute our growth strategy successfully or to compete effectively in our markets, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, possible adverse impact of government regulation and changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, fluctuations in our operating results, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, the risks of doing business internationally and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in Item 1.A. Risk Factors in our reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and in other periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Important Information
Biogen Idec and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the stockholders of Biogen Idec in connection with the Company's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. Information concerning the interests of participants in the solicitation of proxies will be included in any proxy statement filed by Biogen Idec in connection with the Company's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. In addition, Biogen Idec files annual, quarterly and special reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 
Page 9 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2007 Results
"SEC"). The proxy statements and other reports, when available, can be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov or from Biogen Idec at www.biogenidec.com. Biogen Idec stockholders are advised to read carefully any proxy statement filed in connection with the Company's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders when it becomes available before making any voting or investment decision. The Company's proxy statement will also be available for free by writing to Biogen Idec Inc., 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA 02142. In addition, copies of the proxy materials may be requested from our proxy solicitor, Innisfree M&A Incorporated, by toll-free telephone at (877) 750-5836 or by e-mail at info@innisfreema.com.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.
 
 
Numbers may not foot due to rounding.


