FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20081021073739.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On October 21, 2008, Biogen Idec Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended September 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
     The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 21, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Page 1 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results
Media Contact: Naomi Aoki Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Eric Hoffman Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, October 21, 2008  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today reported its third quarter 2008 results.
Third Quarter 2008 Highlights:
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results
"We continue to deliver exceptional financial performance as we grow sales of our three key products and advance our pipeline," said James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer. "For the first time in the company's history, Biogen Idec reported quarterly revenues in excess of $1 billion. We increased revenues more than 25% and grew earnings by 30% for the fourth consecutive quarter. Our prospects for growth, both now and in the future, remain strong."
Financial Performance
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $207 million and diluted EPS of $0.70 in the third quarter of 2008. On a non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income of $288 million in the third quarter of 2008. Non-GAAP diluted EPS were $0.98 for the third quarter of 2008.
A reconciliation of our GAAP to non-GAAP results is included on Table 3 within this press release.
As of September 30, 2008 Biogen Idec had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $2 billion. In the third quarter we recorded a charge of $24 million, or $0.06 per share, in "other income, net" related to the impairment and realized losses of certain assets in the company's investment portfolio.
Revenue Performance
Revenues from AVONEX, one of Biogen Idec's therapies for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), increased 26% in the third quarter 2008 to $573 million, as compared to the third quarter of 2007. U.S. sales increased 21% to $322 million and international sales increased 33% to $252 million in the third quarter of 2008 as compared to the third quarter 2007.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2008 included $299 million from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech, Inc. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits. As reported by Genentech, U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $655 million in the third quarter, as compared to $572 million in the third quarter of 2007.
During the third quarter of 2008, Biogen Idec recognized revenue of $171 million related to TYSABRI comprising:
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results
As of the end of September 2008, more than 35,500 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide. According to data available as of the end of September 2008:
Cumulatively, in the combined clinical trial and post-marketing settings
:
Revenues from other products were $14 million and $12 million in the third quarter of 2008 and 2007, respectively, consisting primarily of FUMADERM (fumaric acid esters).
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalty revenues were $35 million and $24 million in the third quarter of 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Share Repurchase Program
There were no shares repurchased under our share repurchase program for the three months ended September 30, 2008.
Financial Guidance
Following its strong performance, Biogen Idec provided its 2008 financial guidance:
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results
The reconciling items between the GAAP diluted EPS and non-GAAP diluted EPS for full year 2008 are itemized in Table 3 within this press release.
Recent Highlights
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the third quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on October 21, 2008, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, . Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available on our web site subsequently through November 22, 2008.
http://www.biogenidec.com
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2008 Results
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which appear under the heading "Financial Guidance" above and in the comments from James Mullen, our CEO. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from that which we expect, including our continued dependence on our two principal products, AVONEX and RITUXAN, the uncertainty of success in commercializing other products including TYSABRI, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, the failure to execute our growth strategy successfully or to compete effectively in our markets, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, possible adverse impact of government regulation and changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, the risks of doing business internationally, fluctuations in our operating results, our significant investments in marketable securities, the impact of the global credit crisis, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, product liability claims, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, our substantial indebtedness, environmental risks, the actions of activist shareholders and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in Item 1.A. Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K and our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in other reports we file with the SEC. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
An itemized reconciliation between projected EPS on a GAAP basis and on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
2008 Full Year Guidance GAAP to non-GAAP adjustments
Our "non-GAAP net income" and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures exclude the following items from GAAP net income and diluted EPS:
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
.
1. Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments
We exclude certain purchase accounting impacts, such as those related to our 2003 merger with Biogen, Inc., the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics and Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and the consolidation of Cardiokine and Neurimmune. These include charges for in-process research and development and the incremental charges related to the amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges provides management and investors with a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
.
2. Stock option expense recorded in accordance with SFAS 123R
We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our business. We also exclude stock option expense from our non-GAAP R&D expenses and SG&A expenses, but include P&L impact of restricted stock awards and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
.
3. Unusual or non-recurring items
We evaluate these on an individual basis, and consider both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.
We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they better represent the ongiong economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS.
 


