FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20080423072937.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 23, 2008, the registrant issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended March 31, 2008. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 23, 2008
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Page 1 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2008 Results
Media Contact: Naomi Aoki Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Keith Regnante Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, April 23, 2008  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today reported its first quarter 2008 results.
First Quarter 2008 Highlights:
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2008 Results
"Biogen Idec delivered record revenues and outstanding financial results in the first quarter, as we more than tripled TYSABRI sales compared to the same period last year and our core products AVONEX and RITUXAN continued to generate strong sales," said James Mullen, Biogen Idec's Chief Executive Officer. "Given the strong momentum underway and the key data readouts expected this year, the prospects for the company have never been better."
Financial Performance
On a reported basis, calculated in accordance with GAAP, Biogen Idec reported net income of $163 million (or diluted EPS of $0.54) in the first quarter of 2008.
On a non-GAAP basis, Biogen Idec reported net income of $250 million in the first quarter of 2008. Non-GAAP diluted EPS were $0.83 for the first quarter of 2008.
The reconciling items between GAAP net income and GAAP diluted EPS and non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted EPS in the first quarter, as itemized in Table 3 within this press release, were primarily as follows:
Revenue Performance
Revenues from AVONEX, one of Biogen Idec's therapies for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), increased 19% in the first quarter to $536 million. U.S. sales increased 14% to $308 million and international sales increased 27% to $228 million.
Revenues for the first quarter of 2008 included $247 million from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech, Inc. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits. As reported by Genentech, U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $605 million in the first quarter, as compared to $535 million in the first quarter of 2007.
During the first quarter of 2008, Biogen Idec recognized revenue of $115 million related to TYSABRI. This amount is comprised of:
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2008 Results
As of the end of March 2008, approximately 26,000 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide. According to data available as of the end of March 2008:
Cumulatively, in the combined clinical trial and post-marketing settings:
Revenues from other products in the first quarter of 2008 were $14 million (compared to Q1 2007: $6 million). Current revenues include sales of FUMADERM (fumaric acid esters) and ZEVALIN (ibritumomab tiuxetan), which was sold to Cell Therapeutics in the fourth quarter of 2007.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalties were $24 million and $23 million in the first quarter 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Share Repurchase Program
Biogen Idec repurchased 4,028,196 shares in the first quarter of 2008 under the 20 million share repurchase program authorized by Biogen Idec's Board of Directors in October 2006.
Financial Guidance
Following its strong performance, Biogen Idec raised its 2008 financial guidance:
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2008 Results
Since the Company cannot predict with certainty the nature or the amount of non-operating or unusual charges for 2008, we have made no assumptions regarding other such charges in this GAAP guidance. The Company may incur charges or realize gains in 2008 that could cause actual results to vary from this guidance.
Recent Highlights
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2008 Results
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income" and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures are defined as reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS excluding, for the reasons discussed below, (1) purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments, (2) stock option expense and (3) other items. We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they: better represent the ongoing economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Accordingly, we believe investors' understanding of the Company's financial performance is enhanced as a result of our disclosing these non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP net income and
 
Page 6 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2008 Results
diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income and diluted EPS.
Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude certain purchase accounting impacts such as those related to our 2003 merger with Biogen, Inc. (the "Merger"), the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics and Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and the consolidation of Cardiokine and Neurimmune. These include charges for in-process research and development and the incremental charges related to the amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges allows management and investors an alternative view of our financial results "as if" the acquired intangible assets had been developed internally rather than acquired and, therefore, provides a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
Stock option expense  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude the impact of our stock option expense recorded in accordance with SFAS 123R. We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our business. We do include the P&L impact of restricted stock awards and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
Other items  Non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS exclude other unusual or non-recurring items that are evaluated on an individual basis. Our evaluation of whether to exclude an item for purposes of determining our non-GAAP financial measures considers both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including, among other things (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.
The Company has reconciled the GAAP net income and diluted EPS for the three-month periods ended March 31, 2008 and 2007 to the non-GAAP measures of net income and diluted EPS in Table 3 of this press release.
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the first quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on April 23, 2008, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, . Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available on our web site subsequently through May 31, 2008.
http://www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press
 
Page 7 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2008 Results
releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements, which appear under the heading "Financial Guidance" and "Recent Highlights" above and in the comments from James Mullen, our CEO. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from that which we expect. Important factors that could cause our actual results to differ include our continued dependence on our two principal products, AVONEX and RITUXAN, the uncertainty of success in commercializing other products including TYSABRI, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, the consequences of the nomination of directors for election to our Board by an activist shareholder, the failure to execute our growth strategy successfully or to compete effectively in our markets, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, possible adverse impact of government regulation and changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, fluctuations in our operating results, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, the risks of doing business internationally and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in Item 1.A. Risk Factors in our reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q and in other periodic and current reports we file with the SEC. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Important Information
Biogen Idec and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the stockholders of Biogen Idec in connection with the Company's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. On April 18, 2008, Biogen Idec filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and will file a definitive proxy statement and other materials concerning the proposals to be presented at the Company's 2008 annual meeting. Information concerning the interests of participants in the solicitation of proxies is included in the proxy statement. THE PROXY STATEMENT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT BIOGEN IDEC AND THE 2008 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS. Biogen Idec's stockholders are advised to read carefully the proxy statement, and any amendments or supplements thereto, and other materials filed by Biogen Idec in connection with the Company's 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, when available, before making any voting or investment decision. The Company's proxy statement and other materials, as well as the annual, quarterly and special reports filed with the SEC, when available, can be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at or from Biogen Idec at . The Company's definitive proxy statement and other materials will also be available for free by writing to Biogen Idec Inc., 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA 02142 or by contacting our proxy solicitor, Innisfree M&A
www.sec.gov
www.biogenidec.com
 
Page 8 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2008 Results
Incorporated, by toll-free telephone at (877) 750-5836 or by e-mail at .
info@innisfreema.com
 
 
 
An itemized reconciliation between net income on a GAAP basis and net income on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
 


