FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20091020072920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 20, 2009, Biogen Idec Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On October 20, 2009, Biogen Idec Inc. announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of its common stock in an amount of up to $1 billion. The company intends to retire shares following repurchase on the open market. This repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 20, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Jennifer Neiman Senior Manager, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: John Applegate Associate Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
Cambridge, MA, October 20, 2009  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today reported its third quarter 2009 results.
Third Quarter 2009 Highlights:
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results
"Our strong performance this quarter puts us on pace to achieve our 2009 financial goals," said Biogen Idec CEO James C. Mullen. "Equally important, we made significant progress advancing the development of key pipeline programs."
Revenue Performance
Revenues from AVONEX, one of Biogen Idec's therapies for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), increased 1% to $580 million in the third quarter of 2009 as compared to $573 million in the third quarter of 2008. U.S. sales of AVONEX increased 8% to $348 million year over year. Rest of world sales of AVONEX decreased 8% to $232 million year over year.
Revenues for the third quarter of 2009 included $284 million from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $670 million in the third quarter 2009, as compared to $655 million in the third quarter of 2008, an increase of 2%.
During the third quarter of 2009, Biogen Idec recognized revenue of $207 million related to TYSABRI. This amount is comprised of:
Based upon data available to us through the TOUCH prescribing program and other third-party sources as of the end of September 2009, we estimate that approximately 46,200 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide, and that cumulatively approximately 60,700 patients have ever been treated with TYSABRI in the post-marketing setting.
Revenues from other products in the third quarter of 2009 were $15 million, as compared to $14 million in the third quarter of 2008.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalty revenues were $35 million in the third quarter of both 2009 and 2008.
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results
Share Repurchase Program
In October 2009, Biogen Idec's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $1 billion of common stock. This is in addition to the 6 million shares remaining from our previous share repurchase authorization. While we have used the prior program principally for share stabilization, this new $1 billion authorization is intended to reduce our shares outstanding, with the objective of returning excess cash to shareholders. Shares will be purchased on the open market and retired. The authorization is open-ended and is expected to be accretive to EPS. The repurchase reflects our confidence in the long-term value of our common stock and we believe it is an effective way of returning excess cash to our shareholders.
"We are confident in the projected cash flows from our core products, which allow us to return capital to shareholders while continuing to fund future growth through our pipeline. Furthermore, we believe that this will not hamper our ability to capitalize on strategic external growth opportunities" stated Biogen Idec CFO Paul J. Clancy.
The company has approximately 289 million shares of common stock outstanding at the end of September 2009. The company plans to update investors on the progress of this program on future quarterly earnings calls.
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec updated its 2009 full year guidance as follows:
This guidance excludes any significant business development activity.
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results
Recent Highlights
Conference Call and Webcast
The company's earnings conference call for the third quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on October 20, 2009, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, . Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available on our web site subsequently through November 20, 2009.
www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results
commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
In addition to historical information, this press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current beliefs and expectations. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those which we expect. Important factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations include our dependence on our three principal products, AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, the importance of market acceptance and successful sales growth of TYSABRI, uncertainty of success in commercializing other products, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, competitive pressures, changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, failure to execute our growth initiatives, failure to comply with government regulation and possible adverse impact of changes in such regulation, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, our significant investment in a new manufacturing facility in Denmark, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, the risks of doing business internationally, the election of two directors nominated by an activist shareholder, fluctuations in our operating results, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, product liability claims, credit and financial market conditions, the market, interest and credit risks associated with our portfolio of marketable securities, our level of indebtedness, environmental risks, aspects of our corporate governance and collaborations and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports we file with the SEC. Forward-looking statements, like all statements in this press release, speak only as of the date of this press release (unless another date is indicated). Unless required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
An itemized reconciliation between net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. on a GAAP basis and net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
2009 Full Year Guidance GAAP to non-GAAP adjustments
An itemized reconciliation between projected EPS on a GAAP basis and on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc." and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures exclude the following items from GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. and diluted EPS:
1. Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments.
We exclude certain purchase accounting impacts, such as those related to the 2003 merger between Biogen, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics and Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and the consolidation of Cardiokine and Neurimmune. These include charges for in-process research and development and the incremental charges related to the amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges provides management and investors with a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
2. Stock option expense recorded in accordance with the accounting standard for share-based payments.
We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our business. We also exclude stock option expense from our non-GAAP R&D expenses and SG&A expenses, but include P&L impact of restricted stock awards and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
3. Unusual or non-recurring items.
We evaluate these on an individual basis, and consider both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.
We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they better represent the ongoing economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. and diluted EPS.
 


