FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20090416161549.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 16, 2009, Biogen Idec Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended March 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 16, 2009
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Naomi Aoki Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: Eric Hoffman Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, April 16, 2009  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today reported its first quarter 2009 results.
First Quarter 2009 Highlights:
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
"Revenue growth from all three of our marketed products and continued advancement of our robust pipeline during the quarter were in line with our expectations," said James C. Mullen, Biogen Idec's President and CEO. "The expansion of our global footprint in recent years is serving us well, particularly in the current environment. One-third of our sales currently come from outside the United States, a clear illustration of our success in capturing the greatest amount of value for our products worldwide."
As of March 31, 2009, Biogen Idec had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $2.5 billion.
Revenue Performance
Revenues from AVONEX, the most prescribed therapy worldwide for patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), increased 4% to $555 million in the first quarter of 2009 as compared to the first quarter of 2008. U.S. sales increased 10% to $340 million and international sales decreased 5% to $215 million.
Revenues for the first quarter 2009 included $279 million from Biogen Idec's joint business arrangement related to RITUXAN, a treatment for certain B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphomas (NHL) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) that Biogen Idec co-promotes in the U.S. with Genentech. All U.S. sales of RITUXAN are recognized by Genentech, and Biogen Idec records its share of the pretax co-promotion profits. U.S. net sales of RITUXAN were $642 million in the first quarter 2009, as compared to $605 million in the first quarter of 2008, as reported to Biogen Idec by Genentech.
During the first quarter of 2009, Biogen Idec recognized revenue of $165 million related to TYSABRI. This amount is comprised of:
As of the end of March 2009, approximately 40,000 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide. To date, the safety data continues to support a favorable benefit-risk profile for TYSABRI. According to data available as of the end of March 2009:
Cumulatively, in the post-marketing setting
:
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
Revenues from other products in the first quarter of 2009 were $13 million, as compared to $14 million in the first quarter of 2008.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalties were $24 million in both the first quarter of 2009 and 2008.
Share Repurchase Program
We repurchased 1.2 million shares under our share repurchase program during the three months ended March 31, 2009.
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec confirmed the full year 2009 financial guidance outlined in February this year, consistent with achieving the Company's 2010 financial goals:
We may incur charges or realize gains or experience other events in 2009 that could cause actual results to vary from this guidance.
Recent Highlights
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
Conference Call and Webcast
The Company's earnings conference call for the first quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 4:30 p.m. ET on April 16, 2009, and will be accessible through the investor relations section of Biogen Idec's homepage, . Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available on our web site subsequently through May 15, 2009.
http://www.biogenidec.com
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients in more than 90 countries benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the Company, please visit
www.biogenidec.com.
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from that which we expect, including our continued dependence on our two principal products, AVONEX and RITUXAN, the uncertainty of success in commercializing other products including TYSABRI, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, competitive pressures, changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, failure to execute our growth initiatives, possible adverse impact of government regulation, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, the impact of the global credit crisis, the market, interest and credit risks associated with our portfolio of marketable securities, our significant investment in a manufacturing facility currently under development, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, the risks of doing business internationally, the actions of activist shareholders, fluctuations in our operating results, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, product liability claims, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, our level of indebtedness, environmental risks, aspects of our corporate governance and collaborations and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in Item 1.A. Risk Factors in our annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports we file with the SEC. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Important Information
Biogen Idec and its directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the stockholders of Biogen Idec in connection with the Company's 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. On April 1, 2009, Biogen Idec filed a preliminary proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") and will file a definitive proxy statement and other materials concerning the proposals to be presented at the Company's 2009 annual meeting. Information concerning the interests of participants in the solicitation of proxies is included in the proxy statement.
THE PROXY STATEMENT CONTAINS IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT BIOGEN IDEC AND THE 2009 ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS. Biogen
 
Page 6 Biogen Idec Reports First Quarter 2009 Results
Idec's stockholders are advised to read carefully the proxy statement, and any amendments or supplements thereto, and other materials filed by Biogen Idec in connection with the Company's 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, when available, before making any voting or investment decision. The Company's proxy statement and other materials, as well as the annual, quarterly and special reports filed with the SEC, when available, can be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov or from Biogen Idec at www.biogenidec.com. The Company's definitive proxy statement and other materials will also be available for free by writing to Biogen Idec Inc., 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA 02142 or by contacting our proxy solicitor, Innisfree M&A Incorporated, by toll-free telephone at (877) 750-5836 or by e-mail at info@innisfreema.com.
 
 
 
An itemized reconciliation between net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. on a GAAP basis and net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
2009 Full Year Guidance GAAP to non-GAAP adjustments
An itemized reconciliation between projected EPS on a GAAP basis and on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc." and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures exclude the following items from GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS:
1. Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments.
We exclude certain purchase accounting impacts, such as those related to the 2003 merger between Biogen, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics and Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and the consolidation of Cardiokine and Neurimmune. These include charges for in-process research and development and the incremental charges related to the amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges provides management and investors with a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
2. Stock option expense recorded in accordance with SFAS 123R.
We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our business. We also exclude stock option expense from our non-GAAP R&D expenses and SG&A expenses, but include P&L impact of restricted stock awards and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
3. Unusual or non-recurring items.
We evaluate these on an individual basis, and consider both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.
We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they better represent the ongoing economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS.
 


