FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20100209075134.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On February 9, 2010, Biogen Idec Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the full year and three months ended December 31, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 9, 2010
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99
Media Contact: Amy Reilly Associate Director, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 914-6524
Investment Community Contact: John Applegate Associate Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (617) 679-2812
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Cambridge, MA, February 9, 2010  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today announced its full year and fourth quarter 2009 results.
Full Year 2009 Highlights:
 
Page 2 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2009 Results
"Biogen Idec delivered strong financial and operational performance in 2009. We recorded our sixth consecutive year of double-digit EPS growth, TYSABRI became Biogen Idec's third blockbuster product and we advanced two programs into registrational trials," said James C. Mullen, Biogen Idec's President and CEO. "We are confident that our continued focus on our products, robust pipeline and disciplined use of cash will fuel future earnings growth and drive value for Biogen Idec shareholders."
Fourth Quarter 2009 Highlights:
As of December 31, 2009 Biogen Idec had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $2.5 billion.
Share Repurchases
During the fourth quarter of 2009, Biogen Idec repurchased 14.8 million shares of stock at a total cost of $694 million. Two share repurchase authorizations accounted for the activity as follows:
 
Page 3 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2009 Results
During the first quarter of 2010 to February 5, 2010, we purchased an additional 5.4 million shares for a total of $289 million under the October 2009 share repurchase authorization. There is $288 million remaining under this program.
TYSABRI Patient Growth
Based upon data available to us through the TOUCH prescribing program and other third-party sources as of the end of December 2009, we estimate that approximately 48,800 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide, and that cumulatively approximately 64,600 patients have ever been treated with TYSABRI in the post-marketing setting.
Other Products and Royalties
Revenues from other products in the fourth quarter of 2009 were $14 million, as compared to $10 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. Revenues from other products for the full year of 2009 were $54 million as compared to $49 million in 2008.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalties were $41 million in the fourth quarter of 2009 compared to $29 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. Royalties for the full year 2009 were $124 million as compared to $116 million in 2008.
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec also outlined its 2010 financial guidance. This guidance excludes any significant business development activities and consists of the following components:
 
Page 4 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2009 Results
Biogen Idec may incur charges, realize gains or experience other events in 2010 that could cause actual results to vary from this guidance.
Recent Events
 
Page 5 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2009 Results
 
Page 6 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2009 Results
Conference Call and Webcast
The company's earnings conference call for the fourth quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on February 9, 2010, and will be accessible through the Investors section of Biogen Idec's homepage, . Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available on our web site subsequently through March 19, 2010.
http://www.biogenidec.com
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients worldwide benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
In addition to historical information, this press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current beliefs and expectations. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those which we expect. Important factors which could cause actual results to differ from our expectations and which could negatively impact our financial position and results of operations include our dependence on our three principal products, AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, the importance of market acceptance and successful sales growth of TYSABRI, uncertainty of success in commercializing other products, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, competitive pressures, changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, failure to execute our growth initiatives, failure to comply with government regulation and possible adverse impact of changes in such regulation, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, charges and other costs relating to our properties, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, the risks of doing business internationally, representation by activist shareholders, our ability to protect our
 
Page 7 Biogen Idec Reports Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2009 Results
intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, product liability claims, fluctuations in our operating results, credit and financial market conditions, the market, interest and credit risks associated with our portfolio of marketable securities, our level of indebtedness, environmental risks, aspects of our corporate governance and collaborations and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our annual report on Form 10-K and in other reports we file with the SEC. Forward-looking statements, like all statements in this press release, speak only as of the date of this press release (unless another date is indicated). Unless required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Important Information
Biogen Idec and its directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from the stockholders of Biogen Idec in connection with the Company's 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. The names, affiliations and interests of such individuals may be found in Biogen Idec's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and its proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting, each of which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). To the extent holdings of Biogen Idec securities have changed since such documents were filed, such changes have been or will be reflected in Statements of Change in Ownership on Forms 3 and 4 filed with the SEC. Additional information regarding such individuals will be included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 and in the Company's proxy statement in connection with the Company's 2010 annual meeting of stockholders when those documents are filed with the SEC.
Biogen Idec files annual, quarterly and special reports with the SEC. The proxy statements and other reports, when available, can be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov or from Biogen Idec at www.biogenidec.com. Biogen Idec stockholders are advised to read carefully the proxy statement relating to the Company's 2010 annual meeting of stockholders and any other relevant documents filed by the Company with the SEC when they become available before making any voting or investment decision, because they will contain important information. The Company's proxy statement will also be available for free by writing to Biogen Idec Inc., 14 Cambridge Center, Cambridge, MA 02142. In addition, copies of the proxy materials may be requested from our proxy solicitor, MacKenzie Partners, Inc., by toll-free telephone at 1-800-322-2885 or by e-mail at proxy@mackenziepartners.com.
 
 
 
2010 Full Year Guidance GAAP to non-GAAP adjustments
An itemized reconciliation between projected EPS on a GAAP basis and on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc." and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures exclude the following items from GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. and diluted EPS:
1. Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments.
We exclude certain purchase accounting impacts, such as those related to the 2003 merger between Biogen, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics and Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and the consolidation of Cardiokine and Neurimmune. These include charges for in-process research and development and the incremental charges related to the amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges provides management and investors with a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
2. Stock option expense recorded in accordance with the accounting standard for share-based payments.
We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our business. We also exclude stock option expense from our non-GAAP R&D expenses and SG&A expenses, but include P&L impact of restricted stock grants and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
3. Unusual or non-recurring items.
We evaluate these on an individual basis, and consider both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.
We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they better represent the ongoing economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income attributable to Biogen Idec, Inc. and diluted EPS.
 


