FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20100720073226.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 20, 2010, Biogen Idec Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended June 30, 2010. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 20, 2010
 

Exhibit 99
Media Contact: Christina Chan Senior Manager, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (781) 464-3260
Investment Community Contact: John Applegate Associate Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (781) 464-2442
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Weston, MA, July 20, 2010  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies, today announced its second quarter 2010 results.
Second Quarter 2010 Highlights:
 
     
Page 2
Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results
As of June 30, 2010, Biogen Idec had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $1.5 billion.
Biogen Idec's newly appointed Chief Executive Officer, George A. Scangos, Ph.D. said, "Biogen Idec had a solid second quarter. Our charge now is to build on the quarter, aggressively execute our marketing plans for AVONEX, complete the patient and risk stratification strategy for TYSABRI, move the late-stage pipeline forward rapidly, and rationalize the R&D portfolio. We have the potential to launch five new products in the next three years. I'm excited about the opportunities ahead and eager to address our challenges head-on and work with the management team and Board to drive Biogen Idec to achieve its full potential."
TYSABRI Patient Growth
Based upon data available to Biogen Idec through the TOUCH prescribing program and other third-party sources, Biogen Idec estimates that as of the end of June 2010 approximately 52,700 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide, and that cumulatively approximately 71,400 patients have ever been treated with TYSABRI in the post-marketing setting.
Other Products and Royalties
Revenues from other products in the second quarter of 2010 were $12 million, the same as in the second quarter of 2009.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalty revenues were $30 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $25 million in the second quarter of 2009.
Corporate partner revenues were $17 million in the second quarter of 2010, versus $2 million in the second quarter of 2009.
Share Repurchase Programs
In April 2010, the Board approved a $1.5 billion share repurchase program. During the second quarter of 2010, Biogen Idec repurchased and retired 20.8 million shares at a total cost of $1 billion. Subsequent to quarter end through July 16, Biogen Idec repurchased an additional 4.7 million shares at a cost of $233 million. In total, since the beginning of the year, Biogen Idec has purchased 36.0 million shares for a total cost of $1.8 billion. Biogen Idec's fully-diluted weighted average shares outstanding were approximately 262 million for the second quarter.
 
     
Page 3
Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results
Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec also revised its 2010 financial guidance. This guidance consists of the following components:
Biogen Idec may incur charges, realize gains or experience other events in 2010 that could cause actual results to vary from this guidance. This guidance excludes any significant business development activities.
Recent Events
 
     
Page 4
Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results
 
     
Page 5
Biogen Idec Reports Second Quarter 2010 Results
Conference Call and Webcast
Biogen Idec's earnings conference call for the second quarter will be broadcast via the Internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on July 20, 2010, and will be accessible through the Investors section of www.biogenidec.com. Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the Internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available through August 20, 2010.
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec creates new standards of care in therapeutic areas with high unmet medical needs. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is a global leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing, and commercialization of innovative therapies. Patients worldwide benefit from Biogen Idec's significant products that address diseases such as lymphoma, multiple sclerosis, and rheumatoid arthritis. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
In addition to historical information, this press release contains forward-looking statements that are based on our current beliefs and expectations. These forward-looking statements may be accompanied by such words as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "intend," "may," "plan," "will" and other words and terms of similar meaning. You should not place undue reliance on these statements. These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in such statements, including our dependence on our three principal products, AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, the importance of TYSABRI's sales growth, competitive pressures, uncertainty of success in commercializing other products, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, our dependence on collaborations over which we may not always have full control, failure to execute our growth initiatives, failure to comply with government regulation and possible adverse impact of changes in such regulation, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, charges and other costs relating to our properties, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, market and economic conditions, the risks of doing business internationally, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, proxy contests and representation of activist shareholders on our board of directors, product liability claims, fluctuations in our operating results, the market, interest and credit risks associated with our portfolio of marketable securities, our level of indebtedness, environmental risks, aspects of our corporate governance and collaborations and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recent annual or quarterly report and in other reports we have filed with the SEC. Forward-looking statements, like all statements in this press release, speak only as of the date of this press release (unless another date is indicated). Unless required by law, we do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
 
An itemized reconciliation between net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. on a GAAP basis and net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
2010 Full Year Guidance GAAP to non-GAAP adjustments
An itemized reconciliation between projected EPS on a GAAP basis and on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc." and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures exclude the following items from GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS:
1. Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments.
We exclude certain purchase accounting impacts, such as those related to the 2003 merger between Biogen, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics and Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and the consolidation of Cardiokine and Neurimmune. These include charges for in-process research and development and the incremental charges related to the amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges provides management and investors with a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
2. Stock option expense recorded in accordance with the accounting standard for share-based payments.
We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our business. We exclude stock option expense from our non-GAAP R&D expenses and SG&A expenses, but include the P&L impact of restricted stock grants and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
3. Unusual or non-recurring items.
We evaluate these on an individual basis, and consider both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.
We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they better represent the ongoing economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS.
 


