FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20110726072750.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On July 26, 2011, Biogen Idec Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended June 30, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
Media Contact: Christina Chan Senior Manager, Public Affairs Biogen Idec Tel: (781) 464-3260
Investment Community Contact: Kia Khaleghpour Associate Director, Investor Relations Biogen Idec Tel: (781) 464-2442
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Weston, MA, July 26, 2011  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing and commercialization of innovative therapies, today announced its second quarter 2011 results.
Second Quarter 2011 Highlights:
 
As of June 30, 2011, Biogen Idec had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $2.5 billion.
"We are pleased with our strong second quarter performance" said George A. Scangos, Ph.D., chief executive officer of Biogen Idec. "Our commercial and financial performance has been strong, and we have made great progress on our pipeline, which is now focused on high quality projects in areas of our expertise  neurology, immunology, and hemophilia. This quarter, we were excited by the European Commission's approval of the inclusion of JCV antibody status as an additional PML risk factor in TYSABRI labeling, as well as the conditional approval for FAMPYRA. We continue to focus on execution to insure that we achieve our ambitious goals and continue our positive momentum into the second half of this year."
Share Repurchases
During the second quarter of 2011, Biogen Idec repurchased 2.2 million shares of stock at a total cost of $191 million.
TYSABRI Patient Growth
Based upon data available to us through the TOUCH prescribing program and other third-party sources, as of the end of June 2011, we estimate that approximately 61,500 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide, and that cumulatively approximately 88,100 patients have ever been treated with TYSABRI in the post-marketing setting.
Other Products and Royalties
Revenues from other products in the second quarter of 2011 were $16 million, an increase of 36% over the second quarter of 2010.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalties were $29 million in the second quarter of 2011, a decrease of 5% compared to the second quarter of 2010.
 
Corporate partner revenues in the second quarter of 2011 were $7 million, compared to $17 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Revised Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec also revised its 2011 financial guidance. This guidance consists of the following components:
Biogen Idec may incur charges, realize gains or experience other events in 2011 that could cause actual results to vary from this guidance.
Recent Events
 
Conference Call and Webcast
The company's earnings conference call for the second quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:30 a.m. ET on July 26, 2011, and will be accessible through the Investors section of Biogen Idec's homepage, www.biogenidec.com. Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available there subsequently through August 26, 2011.
About Biogen Idec
Biogen Idec uses cutting-edge science to discover, develop, manufacture and market therapies for the treatment of serious diseases with a focus on neurological disorders. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is the world's oldest independent biotechnology company. Patients worldwide benefit from its leading multiple sclerosis therapies, and the company generates more than $4 billion in annual revenues. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit www.biogenidec.com.
 
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements about the anticipated development of programs in our clinical pipeline and financial guidance. These forward-looking statements may be accompanied by such words as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "target," "will" and other words and terms of similar meaning. You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in such statements, including our dependence on our three principal products, AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, the importance of TYSABRI's sales growth, product competition, uncertainty of success in commercializing other products, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, adverse market and economic conditions, our dependence on collaborations and other third parties over which we may not always have full control, failure to execute our growth initiatives, failure to comply with government regulation and possible adverse impact of changes in such regulation, charges and other costs relating to our properties, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, the risks of doing business internationally, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights and the cost of doing so, product liability claims, fluctuations in our operating results, the market, interest and credit risks associated with our portfolio of marketable securities, our level of indebtedness, environmental risks, aspects of our corporate governance and collaborations, representation of activist shareholders on our board of directors, and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recent annual or quarterly report and in other reports we have filed with the SEC.
These statements are based on our current beliefs and expectations and speak only as of the date of this press release. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
2011 Full Year Guidance GAAP to non-GAAP adjustments
An itemized reconciliation between projected EPS on a GAAP basis and on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc." and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures exclude the following items from GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS:
1. Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments.
We exclude certain purchase accounting impacts, such as those related to the 2003 merger between Biogen, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics, Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, and Panima Pharmaceuticals AG and the consolidation of Knopp and Cardiokine. These include charges for in-process research and development and amortization of the acquired intangible assets. Excluding these charges provides management and investors with a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
2. Stock option expense recorded in accordance with the accounting standard for share-based payments.
We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our business. We exclude stock option expense from our non-GAAP R&D expenses and SG&A expenses, but include the impact of all other share-based awards and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
3. Other items.
We evaluate these on an individual basis, and consider both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.
We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they better represent the ongoing economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS.
 


