FILE:BIIB/BIIB-8K-20120501074225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2012, Biogen Idec Inc. issued a press release announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the three months ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The press release is being furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall such document be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such exhibits are furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 1, 2012
 

Exhibit 99
 
Media Contact:
Amanda Brown Galgay
Senior Manager, Public Affairs
Biogen Idec
Tel: (781) 464-3260
Investment Community Contact:
Ben Strain
Senior Manager, Investor Relations
Biogen Idec
Tel: (781) 464-2442
Weston, MA, May 1, 2012  Biogen Idec Inc. (NASDAQ: BIIB), a global biotechnology leader in the discovery, development, manufacturing and commercialization of innovative therapies, today announced its first quarter 2012 results.
First Quarter 2012 Highlights:
 
 
 
As of March 31, 2012, Biogen Idec had cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately $2.7 billion.
The company also announced today that it expects to repurchase an additional $500 million in shares over the balance of the year for the purpose of retiring shares and returning capital to shareholders.
"Our revenue growth in the first quarter reflects our strong business fundamentals," said George A. Scangos, Ph.D., the company's chief executive officer. "While AVONEX orders in January were impacted by what we believe to be isolated events, sales rebounded quickly and we believe the underlying AVONEX business is solid. TYSABRI and RITUXAN generated double-digit sales growth. We filed for marketing approval for our oral MS candidate BG-12 in both the U.S. and Europe and continued to ramp up R&D activity as we executed on six phase III programs and advanced our early-stage pipeline. We're optimistic about our business outlook for the year."
TYSABRI Patient Growth
Based upon data available to us through the TOUCH prescribing program and other third-party sources, as of the end of March 2012, we estimate that approximately 66,600 patients were on commercial and clinical TYSABRI therapy worldwide, and that cumulatively approximately 99,600 patients have ever been treated with TYSABRI in the post-marketing setting.
Investing for the Future
The company is preparing for the potential of multiple product launches in the coming years. With the expectation of an early 2013 launch for BG-12 (dimethyl fumarate) in the U.S. and 2013 launches in hemophilia, it continued to make investments in the first quarter in product positioning and promotional planning, scientific outreach, shaping its patient support services, and supply chain.
The company also made significant headway on its R&D pipeline. It anticipates phase III data readouts in the second half of the year from its long-lasting factor VIII and long-lasting factor IX programs for hemophilia and dexpramipexole for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Its partner Isis Pharmaceuticals began dosing patients in a phase I study
 
 
for ISIS-SMN
Rx
for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), the most common genetic cause of infant mortality, and the companies expect results in late 2013. Through the recent acquisition of Stromedix, Biogen Idec added STX-100, a novel humanized monoclonal antibody that is expected to initiate a phase II study by mid-year in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), a debilitating and almost uniformly fatal disease in which patients experience progressive difficulty breathing due to scarring of the lung.
Other Products and Royalties
Revenues from other products in the first quarter of 2012 were $28 million, compared to $13 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Table 4 provides individual product revenues.
Royalties were $29 million in the first quarter of 2012, an increase of 13% compared to the first quarter of 2011.
For the first quarter of 2012, corporate partner revenues were $3 million, compared to $15 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Updated 2012 Financial Guidance
Biogen Idec also updated its full year 2012 financial guidance. This guidance consists of the following components:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Biogen Idec may incur charges, realize gains or experience other events in 2012 that could cause actual results to vary from this guidance.
Recent Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Conference Call and Webcast
The company's earnings conference call for the first quarter will be broadcast via the internet at 8:00 a.m. ET on May 1, 2012, and will be accessible through the Investors section of Biogen Idec's homepage, www.biogenidec.com. Supplemental information in the form of a slide presentation will also be accessible at the same location on the internet at the time of the earnings conference call and will be available there subsequently for one month.
About Biogen Idec
Through cutting-edge science and medicine, Biogen Idec discovers, develops and delivers to patients worldwide innovative therapies for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases, hemophilia and autoimmune disorders. Founded in 1978, Biogen Idec is the world's oldest independent biotechnology company. Patients worldwide benefit from its leading multiple sclerosis therapies, and the company generates more than $5 billion in annual revenues. For product labeling, press releases and additional information about the company, please visit .
www.biogenidec.com
Safe Harbor
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements about potential product launches, 2012 financial guidance, clinical trial readouts and progress, and potential therapies. These forward-looking statements may be accompanied by such words as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "forecast," "intend," "may," "plan," "project," "target," "will" and other words and terms of similar meaning. You should not place undue reliance on these statements.
 
 
These statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those reflected in such statements, including our dependence on our three principal products, AVONEX, RITUXAN and TYSABRI, the importance of TYSABRI's sales growth, uncertainty of success in commercializing other products, product competition, the occurrence of adverse safety events with our products, changes in the availability of reimbursement for our products, adverse market and economic conditions, our dependence on collaborations and other third parties over which we may not always have full control, failure to comply with government regulation, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, and have sufficient rights to market our products and services together with the cost of doing so, problems with our manufacturing processes and our reliance on third parties, the risks of doing business internationally, failure to execute our growth initiatives, charges and other costs relating to our properties, fluctuations in our effective tax rate, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, product liability claims, fluctuations in our operating results, the market, interest and credit risks associated with our portfolio of marketable securities, our level of indebtedness, environmental risks, change of control provisions in our collaborations and the other risks and uncertainties that are described in the Risk Factors section of our most recent annual or quarterly report and in other reports we have filed with the SEC.
These statements are based on our current beliefs and expectations and speak only as of the date of this press release. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
An itemized reconciliation between net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. on a GAAP basis and net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
 
2012 Full Year Guidance GAAP to non-GAAP adjustments
An itemized reconciliation between projected EPS on a GAAP basis and on a non-GAAP basis is as follows:
 
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Our "non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc." and "non-GAAP diluted EPS" financial measures exclude the following items from GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS:
1. Purchase accounting and merger-related adjustments.
We exclude certain purchase accounting impacts, such as those related to the 2003 merger between Biogen, Inc. and Idec Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the acquisitions of Fumapharm AG, Conforma Therapeutics, Syntonix Pharmaceuticals, Panima Pharmaceutical AG, and Stromedix Inc, the acquisition of the noncontrolling interest of Biogen Dompe SRL and Biogen Dompe Switzerland GmbH and the consolidation of Knopp. These include charges for in-process research and development, amortization of the acquired intangible assets and changes in contingent consideration. Excluding these charges provides management and investors with a supplemental measure of performance in which the Company's acquired intellectual property is treated in a comparable manner to its internally developed intellectual property.
2. Stock option expense recorded in accordance with the accounting standard for share-based payments.
We believe that excluding the impact of expensing stock options better reflects the recurring economic characteristics of our business. We exclude stock option expense from our non-GAAP R&D expenses and SG&A expenses, but include the impact of all other share-based awards and cash incentives in our non-GAAP results.
3. Other items.
We evaluate these on an individual basis, and consider both the quantitative and qualitative aspects of the item, including (i) its size and nature, (ii) whether or not it relates to our ongoing business operations, and (iii) whether or not we expect it to occur as part of our normal business on a regular basis.
We believe it is important to share these non-GAAP financial measures with shareholders as they better represent the ongoing economics of the business, reflect how we manage the business internally and set operational goals, and form the basis of our management incentive programs. Non-GAAP net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS should not be viewed in isolation or as a substitute for reported, or GAAP, net income attributable to Biogen Idec Inc. and diluted EPS.
 


