FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20050915172115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): September 11, 2005
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On September 11, 2005, eBay Inc. ("eBay"), Skype Technologies S.A., a limited company (socit anonyme) registered under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ("Skype"), and the shareholders and warrant holders of Skype (collectively, the "Sellers") entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement under which eBay has agreed to acquire all of the outstanding share capital of Skype (the "Purchase Agreement") for an initial payment consisting of approximately  2.1 billion, or approximately $2.6 billion, which is comprised of approximately $1.3 billion in cash and the value of approximately 32.4 million shares of eBay common stock, plus potential earn out payments tied to the achievement of certain performance targets prior to June 30, 2009. All dollar amounts herein are based on the Euro-Dollar exchange rate as of September 9, 2005.
The maximum amount potentially payable under the performance-based earn-out is approximately 1.2 billion, or approximately $1.5 billion, and would be payable in cash or eBay stock, at eBay's discretion, with expected payment dates in 2008 and/or 2009. Skype shareholders were offered the choice between several consideration options for their shares. Shareholders representing approximately 40% of the Skype shares chose to receive a single payment in cash and eBay stock at the close of the transaction (the "Fixed Consideration Election"). Shareholders representing the remaining 60% of the Skype shares chose to receive a reduced up-front payment in cash and eBay stock at the close plus potential future earn-out payments which are based on performance-based targets for active users, gross profit and revenue (the "Earn Out Election").
The terms and conditions of the earn out payments are set forth in an Earn Out Agreement entered into concurrently with the Purchase Agreement by eBay, Skype and the Sellers who elected to receive the earn out payments. The earn out payments are contingent upon Skype achieving: (a) a net revenue and gross margin-based target; (b) a gross profit-based target; and (c) a target based on the number of active users of Skype's communication products. Base earn out payments of up to an aggregate of approximately 900 million, or approximately $1.1 billion, weighted equally among the three targets, would be payable if the targets are achieved over any four-quarter period commencing on January 1, 2006 through June 30, 2009. Additional bonus earn out payments of up to an aggregate of approximately 300 million, or approximately $400 million, weighted equally among the three targets, would be payable if Skype exceeds the targets during calendar year 2008.
The eBay stock to be issued in connection with the acquisition will be issued in reliance on certain exemptions from registration available under applicable securities law. Seventy-five percent of the shares of eBay stock to be issued to Sellers who made the Fixed Consideration Election that are not otherwise deposited into escrow will be subject to contractual restrictions on transfer that will lapse with respect to one-third of such shares on each of the 180th, 360th and 540th day following the closing of the acquisition. All of the shares of eBay stock to be issued to Sellers who made the Earn Out Election that are included in the up-front payment but are not otherwise deposited into escrow will be subject to contractual restrictions on transfer that will lapse with respect to twenty-five percent of such shares on each of the 180th, 360th, 540th and 720th day following the closing of the acquisition. eBay and the Sellers have entered into a Registration Rights Agreement requiring eBay to file a registration statement on Form S-3 covering the resale of such eBay stock within 75 days following the closing of the acquisition.
The closing of the acquisition is conditioned upon customary closing conditions, as well as the execution of an option assumption agreement by holders representing at least 85% of the outstanding Skype stock options, as well as 85% of the holders thereof, whereby each unexercised Skype option would be assumed by eBay and converted into an option to acquire eBay common stock.
The foregoing description of the Purchase Agreement, the Earn Out Agreement and the Registration Rights Agreement do not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such agreements which are filed as Exhibits 2.1, 2.2 and 10.1, respectively, hereto and are incorporated herein by reference. The press release announcing the acquisition, dated September 12, 2005, is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 9.01
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 2.1
 
* Omitted pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. eBay Inc. agrees to supplementally furnish a copy of any omitted attachment to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
 
is made on 11 September 2005
THIS AGREEMENT
:
AMONG
:
WHEREAS
as follows:
NOW IT IS HEREBY AGREED
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ASSIGNED, PLEDGED OR HYPOTHECATED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF AN AGREEMENT DATED SEPTEMBER 11, 2005, BETWEEN THE REGISTERED HOLDER HEREOF AND THE ISSUER, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE AT THE PRINCIPAL OFFICES OF THE ISSUER."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this Agreement has been signed on behalf of the parties the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
Part A (Sellers' obligations)
At Completion, each of the Sellers shall:
 
Part B (Key Employees obligations)
Part C (Warrantholders' obligations)
 
Part D (Purchaser's obligations)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
VAT
Returns/Tax Authority
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means a Relief, the availability of which has been shown as an asset in the Accounts or has been taken into account in computing (and reducing) a provision for deferred tax which appears in the Accounts or has resulted in no provision for deferred tax being made in the Accounts;
Accounts Relief
"" means a claim, assessment, notice, demand or other document issued or action taken by or on behalf of a Tax Authority by which a Group Company is liable or is sought to be made liable to make a payment to a Tax Authority or to another person (whether or not the payment is primarily payable by the Group Company and whether or not the Group Company has or may have a right of reimbursement against another person) or is denied or sought to be denied a Relief;
Assessment
"" means a payment which is a balancing payment for the purposes of paragraph 7A or 7C of Schedule 28AA to the Taxes Act;
Balancing Payment
"" means a benefit arising to the Purchaser's Group, Purchaser or any Group Company as a direct or indirect result of any Tax Liability to which paragraph 2 relates and in respect of which payment has been made by the Sellers under this Schedule or under the Tax Warranties;
Corresponding Saving
"" means an event, act, transaction or omission, including a receipt or accrual of income or gains, distribution, failure to distribute, acquisition, disposal, transfer, payment, loan or advance;
Event
"" means any of the following:
Group Relief
"" means:
Independent Accountants
 
requested pursuant to this Schedule, an internationally recognised firm of accountants appointed by agreement between the Sellers' Representative and the Purchaser or, in default of agreement, by the President from time to time of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales;
"" means (ignoring the effect of any Purchaser's Relief, change in law made or action taken by the Purchaser or any Group Company after Completion (unless such action was carried out by the Group Company concerned pursuant to a legally binding commitment of the relevant Company created on or before Completion or with the prior written agreement or at the written request of the Sellers' Representative) the amount by which the net amount provided for Tax (other than deferred Tax) in the Accounts in relation to all Group Companies exceeds Tax determined as due for the period ended on the Accounting Date;
Over-provision
"" means a Relief which arises in respect of an Event occurring after Completion;
Post Completion Relief
"" means an Accounts Relief or a Post Completion Relief; and
Purchasers Relief
"" means any loss, relief, allowance, exemption, set off, deduction, right to repayment or credit or other relief of a similar nature granted by or available in relation to Tax pursuant to any legislation or otherwise.
Relief
 
and so that the amount of the Tax Liability shall be (i) the amount of Tax which could have been saved (assuming that there is sufficient income, profits or gains against which to set off the Accounts Relief lost) on the basis of the Tax rates current at Completion in the case of the loss of an Accounts Relief; (ii) the amount of Tax which has been saved in consequence of the use or set off of the Purchaser's Relief in the case of the use or set off of a Purchaser's Relief; and (iii) the amount of the repayment which would otherwise have been obtained in the case of Clause 1.2(b).
Subject to paragraph 3, the Sellers shall pay to the Purchaser by way of adjustment of the Consideration an amount equal to the amount of a Group Company's Tax Liability:
(a) which arises:
in each case whether or not the Tax is chargeable against or attributable to another person and whether or not any amount in respect thereof is recoverable from any other person;
(b) which is primarily the liability of another person (the ) for which a Group Company is liable in consequence of:
Primary Person
(A) being a member of the same group of companies as the Primary Person; or
(B) having control of, being controlled by, or being otherwise connected with, the Primary Person or being controlled by the same person as the Primary Person for any Tax purpose;
(c) the amount of any reasonable out of pocket costs and expenses (other than management costs and expenses) reasonably and properly incurred by the Purchaser and/or a
 
Group Company in connection with any such Tax Liability (or claim for such Tax Liability) or in taking or defending any action under this Schedule.
(d) The Sellers shall pay to the Purchaser an amount equal to any depletion in the assets, or increase in the liabilities, of the Purchaser or the Group Company as a result of any inheritance tax which:
For the avoidance of doubt, for the purposes of this paragraph 2(d) the assets of the Purchaser or a Group Company are deemed to be depleted by such amount as it is necessary to pay in order to discharge or remove any charge on, or power to sell, mortgage or charge, any of the Shares or the assets of a Group Company and notwithstanding any provision in this Schedule the Purchaser or the Group Company may disregard any right to pay tax in instalments in discharging or removing a charge or power.
(e) the amount of any liability of a Group Company to make a Balancing Payment (other than to another Group Company), or repay any Balancing Payment made to the Group Company (other than to another Group Company), pursuant to an agreement entered into on or before Completion.
 
in each case with retrospective effect provided that this paragraph 3.1(f) shall not apply in the case of any Tax Liability falling within paragraph 2(b);
 
PROVIDED THAT the following shall not (without limitation) be deemed to be in the ordinary course of business:
(i) the making of a claim, election, surrender or disclaimer, the giving of a notice or consent, or the doing of any other thing under the provisions of any enactment or regulation relating to Tax, in each case after Completion by the Purchaser or any Group Company, other than at the Sellers' Representative written request in accordance with Paragraph 7;
(ii) the failure or omission on the part of any Group Company (other than at the Sellers' Representative written request in accordance with Paragraph 7) to make any such valid claim, election, surrender or disclaimer, or to give any such notice or consent or to do any other such thing, as the Sellers' Representative may require by written request in respect of periods or matters for which the Sellers' Representative has the conduct under Paragraph 7;
 
 
 
 
Group Company for each accounting period ending on or before Completion (the "").
Relevant Accounting Periods
 
 
(a ""),
tax refund
the Purchaser shall promptly give details of such Corresponding Saving, Over provision or tax refund by written notice to the Sellers' Representative.
(i) set off against any payment then due from the Sellers to the Purchaser under this Schedule 8 or under the Tax Warranties;
(ii) to the extent there is any excess, a refund shall be made to the Sellers of any previous payment or payments made by the Sellers under this Schedule or for breach of any Tax Warranty; and
(iii) to the extent that the excess referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) is not exhausted under that sub-paragraph, the remainder of that excess shall be:
(A) promptly repaid by the Purchaser to the Sellers in the case of a Corresponding Saving; or
(B) carried forward and set against any future payment or payments which become due from the Sellers under this Schedule or the Tax Warranties in the case of an Overprovision.
however in the case of a Corresponding Saving ,no amount shall be set off, refunded or repaid to the extent that the Corresponding Saving exceeds the amounts paid to the Purchaser by the Sellers on account of the Tax Liability to which the Corresponding Saving relates
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      (the "") is being executed and delivered as of ___2005 by ___(the "") in favor of, and for the benefit of: eBay Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""); Skype Technologies, a limited company registered under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (the ""); and the other Beneficiaries. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the meanings set forth in Section 19.
This Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement
Agreement
Security Holder
Purchaser
S.A.
Company
     The Security Holder is a key employee, shareholder, optionholder and/or other security holder of the Company or its Affiliates and has obtained extensive and valuable knowledge and confidential information concerning the businesses of the Company and its Affiliates.
A. 
     Concurrent with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Purchaser, the Company, the shareholders of the Company and certain other parties are entering into a Sale and Purchase Agreement (the ""), providing for the acquisition by the Purchaser of all equity securities of the Company and the intended conversion of all outstanding options to acquire shares of the Company into options to acquire shares of the Purchaser. Immediately following the sale of shares contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the businesses of the Company and its Affiliates will be conducted by the Purchaser through the Company and its Affiliates.
B. 
Purchase Agreement
     [.] The Security Holder will be offered employment (the "") with the Purchaser or an Affiliate of the Purchaser following the Effective Date as a result of which the Security Holder will receive substantial benefits in addition to those currently enjoyed by the Security Holder as an employee of the Company (the Security Holder's employment with the Purchaser or an Affiliate of the Purchaser following the Effective Date is referred to herein as the ""). After the Effective Date, the Security Holder will obtain extensive and valuable knowledge, trade secrets and other confidential information concerning the business of the Purchaser and its Affiliates.
C. 
Note to draft: this recital and other applicable bracketed provisions hereof will only be included in the noncompetition agreements for those persons who remain employees of Skype/eBay after the closing
[
Employment Offer
Security Holder's Employment
]
     The Purchaser has requested, as a condition precedent to the execution and delivery of the Purchase Agreement and to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, that the Security Holder execute and deliver this Agreement.
D. 
      in order to induce the Purchaser to execute and deliver the Purchase Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the Security Holder agrees as follows:
Now, Therefore,
 
     . The Security Holder acknowledges that:
1. Acknowledgements by the Security Holder
          as a consequence of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement: (i) the Purchaser will acquire all of the securities of the Company owned by the Security Holder and other selling shareholders of the Company in exchange for the consideration stated in the Purchase Agreement; and (ii) the Security Holder will receive substantial benefits, directly or indirectly;
(a)
          by virtue of the Security Holder's position with the Company, he has developed considerable expertise in the business operations of the Company and the Company's Affiliates and has had extensive access to trade secrets and other confidential information of the Company and the Company's Affiliates;
(b)
          to enable the Purchaser to reap the benefits of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the Purchaser reasonably expects that the Security Holder should refrain from carrying on certain activities as set forth in this Agreement;
(c)
          the Purchaser and the other Beneficiaries would be irreparably damaged and the Purchaser's substantial investment in the Company would be materially impaired, if the Security Holder were to enter into an activity or take any action in violation of the terms of this Agreement; and
(d)
          the terms and conditions of this Agreement are fair and reasonable to the Security Holder in all respects and the restraints imposed herein and the enforcement of the terms and conditions hereof will not lead to any undue hardship or inconvenience or cause the Security Holder to be unable to engage in lawful professions, trades or businesses.
(e)
     This Agreement shall become effective upon the consummation of the share purchase contemplated by the Purchase Agreement (the date of the consummation of such share purchase being referred to as the "").
2. Effective Date.
Effective Date
     
3. Non-Competition.
          During the Restricted Period, the Security Holder shall not, without the prior written consent of the Purchaser own, manage, operate, join, control, finance or participate in the ownership, management, operation, control or financing of or be connected as an officer, director, employee, shareholder, Affiliate, promoter, manager, partner, principal, licensor (other than as a licensor of a generally available right or software application), agent, representative, advisor or consultant of, for or to, any Person engaged in any business anywhere in the world:
(a)
(i) whose business or operations comprises in any respect (other than an incidental or ancillary or immaterial respect) an Internet voice communications product or service or technology, Internet telephony product or service or technology, Internet essentially multidirectional video communications product or service or technology and/or any other product or service or technology in respect of which at least one of the foregoing (Internet voice communications product or service or technology, Internet telephony product or service or technology and/or Internet essentially multidirectional video communications product or service or technology) is a
 
principal component, including without limitation such business or operations of Microsoft Corporation, Google Inc., Yahoo! Inc. or their Affiliates; or
(ii) whose business or operations comprises in any respect (other than an incidental or ancillary or immaterial respect) the use of the Internet to provide a service to effect payments to on-line merchants by consumers by the use of an electronic purse or wallet; or
(iii) that otherwise competes in any respect (other than an ancillary or secondary respect) with the business or operations of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company (which was an Affiliate at or within two years prior to the Effective Date) immediately prior to, or within two years prior to, the Effective Date,
(the business and activity described in this Section 3(a) being referred to in this Agreement collectively as the ""). For the avoidance of doubt, a service, product or technology which is essentially a single directional service, product or technology, including without limitation streaming, podcasting or broadcasting, is not a Restricted Business.
Restricted Business
          Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3(a), the Security Holder shall not be deemed to be in contravention of the provisions of Section 3(a): (i) if the Security Holder owns shares as a passive investor in an entity engaged in a Restricted Business, provided that: (A) such shares are actively traded on an established national securities market in the United States or Europe or a recognised investment exchange (as defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) and (B) the number of shares of such entity's capital stock that are owned beneficially (directly or indirectly) by the Security Holder and the number of shares of such entity's capital stock that are owned beneficially (directly or indirectly) by the Security Holder's Affiliates collectively represent less than five percent (5%) of the total number of shares of such entity's capital stock outstanding; (ii) as a "licensee" or "sublicensee" of an entity engaged in a Restricted Business if the Security Holder is a licensee or sublicensee solely as a customer of such entity; (iii) if the Security Holder provides financing (as a passive financier) to, or is connected as a passive equity holder or a passive partner in, any Person engaged in a business that is not a Restricted Business, and subsequently such Person becomes engaged in a Restricted Business, so long the Security Holder does not: (A) serve as a member of the board of directors (or similar body) or officer of such Person; (B) have the ability to procure the election or appoint any director (or similar person) of such Person or the ability to influence management of such Person; and (C) otherwise become actively involved (as an employee, consultant, adviser or otherwise) in the operations of such Person; (iv) as a result of the Security Holder being an employee, shareholder, officer, director, manager, representative, adviser or consultant of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company; or (v) if the Security Holder has any interest in or provides services to or is a director, officer or advisor of a Person that does not carry on a business that is a Restricted Business, and the Security Holder is not otherwise in breach of this Agreement as a result of such interest or services. In addition, Joltid Limited shall not be deemed to be a Restricted Business solely because it develops peer-to-peer technology for, and licenses peer-to-peer technology to, the Company. For the avoidance of doubt, no Security Holder will be deemed to be in breach of Section 3(a) hereof by virtue of owning, managing, operating, joining, controlling, financing or participating in the ownership, management, operation, control or financing of, or be connected as an officer, director, employee, shareholder, Affiliate, promoter, manager, partner, principal, licensor (other than as a licensor of a generally available software right or application), agent, representative, advisor or consultant of Joltid Limited so long as Joltid Limited is not in material breach of the license agreement between Skype Technologies S.A. and Joltid Limited. In addition, Ambient Sound Investments OY shall not be deemed to be a Restricted Business solely because it provides consulting services to the Company. For the
(b)
 
avoidance of doubt, no Security Holder will be deemed to be in breach of Section 3(a) hereof by virtue of owning, managing, operating, joining, controlling, financing or participating in the ownership, management, operation, control or financing of, or be connected as an officer, director, employee, shareholder, Affiliate, promoter, manager, partner, principal, licensor (other than as a licensor of a generally available software right or application), agent, representative, advisor or consultant of Ambient Sound Investments OY so long as Ambient Sound Investments OY is not in material breach of the consulting engagement agreement between Skype Technologies S.A. (or any of its Affiliates) and Ambient Sound Investments OY.
     
[Note to draft: The references to Ambient Sound Investments OY and Joltid Limited will be deleted from the version for Michael Jackson and Geoffrey Prentice. The reference to Ambient Sound Investments OY will be deleted from the version for Niklas Zennstrom and Janus Friis. The reference to Joltid Limited will be deleted from the version for Toivo Annus, Jaan Tallinn, Priit Kasesalu and Ahti Heinla.]
          A business which is a Restricted Business shall cease to be a Restricted Business six months after it is no longer being carried on by any of the Company or its Affiliates.
(c)
     .
4. Non-Interference
          During the Restricted Period, the Security Holder shall not personally or through others, without the prior written consent of the Purchaser, solicit, attempt to solicit, induce or attempt to induce (on the Security Holder's own behalf or on behalf of any other Person) any Company Specified Person or Purchaser Specified Person to terminate his employment or other relationship with the Purchaser or any Affiliate of the Purchaser, provided that the foregoing shall not apply to: (i) employees who leave the employ of the Purchaser under circumstances not involving any solicitation, attempt at solicitation, inducement or attempt at inducement by the Security Holder; or (ii) employees who respond to general advertisements or other general solicitations not specifically targeted at employees of the Purchaser.
(a)
          During the Restricted Period, the Security Holder shall not personally or through others, without the prior written consent of the Purchaser: (i) induce or attempt to induce any Company Business Contact to terminate any of its relationships with the Purchaser or any Affiliate of the Purchaser; or (ii) otherwise take any action relating to any such Company Business Contact that at the time of such action would reasonably be expected to be disadvantageous to the business of the Purchaser or any Affiliate of the Purchaser (other than any action with only an incidental or immaterial effect on the business of the Purchaser or any Affiliate of the Purchaser).
(b)
     The Security Holder represents and warrants, to and for the benefit of the Beneficiaries, that: (a) the Security Holder has full power and capacity to execute and deliver, and to perform all of the Security Holder's obligations under, this Agreement; and (b) neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement nor the performance of this Agreement will result directly or indirectly in a violation or breach of any Contract or obligation by which the Security Holder or any of the Security Holder's Affiliates is or may be bound.
5. Representations and Warranties.
     The Purchaser shall not be entitled to exercise its rights under this Agreement against the Security Holder as a result of a breach of any provision of this Agreement which is capable of being rectified or remedied without first complying with this Section 5A. If
5A. Breaches.
 
such breach is capable of being rectified or remedied, then the Purchaser shall issue the Security Holder a notice:
     (a) referring to the breach and the relevant section of this Agreement; and
     (b) requiring the Security Holder to rectify or remedy the breach within 30 days after the date on which the Security Holder receives the notice; and
     (c) in relation to a breach of Section 3(a) of this Agreement by the Security Holder, requiring the Security Holder to take demonstrable action (within 15 days after the date on which the Security Holder receives the notice) to rectify or remedy that breach as expeditiously as possible.
     If either:
     (i) the breach referred to in the above notice is not rectified within the 30 day period referred to in the above notice; or
     (ii) the Security Holder has not taken demonstrable action within the 15 day period referred to in the above notice to rectify or remedy the breach as expeditiously as possible, in respect of a breach of Section 3(a),
     then the Purchaser shall be immediately entitled to exercise all of its rights against the Security Holder under this Agreement after the expiry of that 15 day period or 30 day period (as the case may be). For the avoidance of doubt, where a breach of this Agreement is not capable of being rectified or remedied, the Purchaser shall be entitled to exercise all of its rights under this Agreement which arise from such breach of this Agreement. Nothing in this Section 5A shall prevent the Purchaser from seeking relief against a third party in relation to any circumstance which may give rise to a breach of this Agreement.
     The covenants of the Security Holder set forth in this Agreement shall be construed as independent of any other agreement or arrangement between the Security Holder, on the one hand, and the Company or the Purchaser or any of their respective Affiliates, on the other hand, and the existence of any claim or cause of action by the Security Holder against the Company or the Purchaser or any of their respective Affiliates shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement of such covenants against the Security Holder.
6. Independence of Obligations.
     Each restriction and covenant in this Agreement contains an entirely independent restriction or covenant. While the restrictions aforesaid in this Agreement are considered by the parties to be reasonable in all the circumstances, it is agreed that if any restriction shall be adjudged to be void or ineffective for whatever reason but would be adjudged to be valid and effective if part of the wording thereof were deleted the said restrictions shall apply with such modifications as may be necessary to make them valid and effective.
7. Severability.
     A notice under this Agreement shall only be effective if it is in writing. Faxes are permitted. Notices under this Agreement shall be sent to the addresses set forth below, provided that a Person named below may change its notice details on giving notice to the other Person named below of the change in accordance with this clause (which notice shall only be effective on the day falling five clear Business Days after the notification has been received or such later date as may be specified in the notice). Any notice given under this Agreement shall, in the absence of earlier receipt, be deemed to have been duly given as follows: (a) if delivered
8. Notices.
 
personally, on delivery; (b) if sent by first class post, three clear Business Days after the date of posting; and (c) if sent by facsimile, when despatched. Any notice given under this Agreement outside Working Hours in the place to which it is addressed shall be deemed not to have been given until the start of the next period of Working Hours in such place.
     . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, no delay or omission by the Purchaser or the Security Holder in exercising any right, power or remedy provided by law or under this Agreement or any other documents referred to in it shall: (a) affect that right, power or remedy; or (b) operate as a waiver thereof. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the single or partial exercise of any right, power or remedy provided by law or under this Agreement shall not preclude any other or further exercise of it or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy.
9. Waiver
     This Agreement shall be assignable at any time, in whole or in part, by any or all of the Purchaser, the Company or the other Beneficiaries to any of its or their assignees or successors that acquire all or a substantial part of the business of the
10. Assignment; Binding Effect.
 
Company on the Effective Date provided that such assignees or successors first agree in writing to be bound by the terms of this Agreement, and each of such assignees or successors is hereby expressly authorized to enforce this Agreement. This Agreement is not assignable or delegable by the Security Holder. Subject to the two preceding sentences, this Agreement shall: (a) be binding upon the Security Holder and the Security Holder's heirs, executors, estate, administrators, personal representatives, successors and assigns; and (b) inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Purchaser, the Company, the other Beneficiaries and their respective assignees and successors.
     Insofar as he is reasonably able to do so after the Effective Date, the Security Holder shall, on being reasonably required to do so by the Purchaser, and at the cost of the Security Holder execute or procure the execution of such documents as the Purchaser may reasonably consider necessary to implement and give effect to this Agreement.
11. Further Assurances.
     
12. Jurisdiction; Venue.
          The courts of England shall have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement. Any proceedings relating to this Agreement shall be brought in the English courts.
(a)
          The Security Holder waives (and agrees not to raise) any objection, on the ground of or on any other ground, to the taking of proceedings relating to this Agreement in the English courts. The Security Holder also agrees that a judgment against it in proceedings relating to this Agreement brought in England shall be conclusive and binding upon it and may be enforced in any other jurisdiction. The Security Holder irrevocably submits and agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of the English courts in relation to proceedings relating to this Agreement.
(b)
forum non conveniens
          The Security Holder agrees that service of any process, summons, notice or document in accordance with Section 8 shall constitute effective service of such process, summons, notice or document for purposes of any proceeding relating to this Agreement.
(c)
     
13. Fees; Specific Performance; Remedies.
          The Security Holder expressly acknowledges that damages alone will not be an adequate remedy for any breach by the Security Holder of any of the covenants set forth in this Agreement and that each of the Purchaser, the Company and the other Beneficiaries (in addition to any other remedies that they may have, including monetary damages) shall be entitled, as a matter of right, to seek and obtain, in any court of competent jurisdiction with respect to any actual or threatened breach by the Security Holder of any of said covenants: (i) a decree or order of specific performance to enforce the observance and performance of such covenants; and (ii) an injunction restraining such breach or threatened breach. The Security Holder further agrees that neither the Purchaser nor any other Person shall be required to obtain, furnish or post any bond or similar instrument in connection with or as a condition to obtaining any remedy referred to in this Section 13, and the Security Holder irrevocably waives any right he may have to require the obtaining, furnishing or posting of any such bond or similar instrument.
(a)
          Not Used
(b)
 
          Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the rights, powers and remedies provided in this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, powers and remedies provided by law.
(c)
     This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
14. Governing Law.
     The bold-faced headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only, shall not be deemed to be a part of this Agreement and shall not be referred to in connection with the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
15. Headings.
     . This Agreement may not be amended, modified, altered or supplemented other than by means of a written instrument duly executed and delivered on behalf of each of the Security Holder and the Purchaser (or any successor to the Purchaser).
16. Amendment
     The delivery of this Agreement by facsimile or by electronic delivery in .pdf format shall be sufficient to bind the Security Holder to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
17. Signature by Fax.
     . This Agreement and the other agreements referred to herein constitute the whole and only agreement between the parties relating to the matters provided for herein. In entering into this Agreement, each party acknowledges that he is not relying upon any pre-contractual statement that is not expressly set out herein.
18. Entire Agreement
     For purposes of this Agreement:
19. Defined Terms.
          "" means, with respect to any specified Person, any other Person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by or is under common control with such specified Person (it being understood that after the closing of the share purchase contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the Company and its Affiliates shall be considered to be Affiliates of the Purchaser for purposes of this Agreement).
(a)
Affiliate
          "" shall include: (i) the Purchaser; (ii) the Purchaser's current and future Affiliates (including, following the Effective Date, the Company); (iii) the respective officers, directors and representatives of the Persons referred to in clauses "(i)" and "(ii)" above; and (iv) the respective successors and assigns of the Persons referred to in clauses "(i)", "(ii)" and "(iii)" above.
(b)
Beneficiaries
          "" means a day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which banks are open for business in London and Luxembourg.
(c)
Business Day
          "" means any Person who is or was a customer or user of any product or service of, an advertiser in connection with or a technology, marketing or other partner relating to any aspect of the business of the Company or any Affiliate of the Company on the Effective Date or at any time during the 90-day period ending on the Effective Date.
(d)
Company Business Contact
          "" means any Person who is or was a non-clerical employee, consultant or independent contractor of or to the Company or any Affiliate of the Company on the Effective Date or at any time during the 90-day period ending on the Effective Date.
(e)
Company Specified Person
 
          Not Used.
(f)
          "" means any Person: (i) who is or was a non-clerical employee, consultant or independent contractor of or to the Purchaser or any Affiliate of the Purchaser at any time during the period from the Effective Date through the date on which the Security Holder leaves the Security Holder's Employment; and (ii) with whom the Security Holder has or had material contact (or with respect to whom the Security Holder obtains or obtained confidential information) during the period referred to in clause "(i)" of this sentence.
(g)
Purchaser Specified Person
          "" means any: (i) individual; (ii) entity; or (iii) Governmental Entity (as such term is defined in the Purchase Agreement).
(h)
Person
          "" means the period of time that elapses from the Effective Date until the date that is three years from the Effective Date.
(i)
Restricted Period
          "" means 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on a Business Day.
(j)
Working Hours
     
20. Construction.
          For purposes of this Agreement, whenever the context requires: the singular number shall include the plural, and vice versa; the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders; the feminine gender shall include the masculine and neuter genders; and the neuter gender shall include the masculine and feminine genders.
(a)
          The parties hereto agree that any rule of construction to the effect that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be applied in the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
(b)
          As used in this Agreement, the words "include" and "including," and variations thereof, shall not be deemed to be terms of limitation, but rather shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."
(c)
          Except as otherwise indicated, all references in this Agreement to "Sections" are intended to refer to Sections of this Agreement.
(d)
[]
Remainder of page intentionally left blank.
 
     , the Security Holder has duly executed and delivered this Agreement as a Deed:
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
     "8.8 . Any shareholder may transfer any or all of his, her or its respective Shares, without regard to the provisions of Articles 8.9 and 8.10 of this Article 8, only upon compliance with the following terms and conditions of this Article 8.8, , that any transferee of such Shares shall remain subject to all provisions of this Article 8 binding on the transferor of such Shares:
Permitted Transfers of Shares
provided
          Any shareholder may transfer any or all of his, her or its Shares:
          (a) to the Company,
          (b) to a child, spouse or parent of the shareholder making such transfer, , that any Shares transferred to such child, spouse or parent shall be held subject to the provisions of this Article 8,
provided
          (c) in favor of one or more family trusts established for the benefit of the shareholder making such transfer and/or his or her spouse and/or lineal descendents; , and only for so long as, either (A) such shareholder retains the sole voting control over the transferred Shares, in a trustee capacity or otherwise, or (B) if such shareholder dies, or becomes disabled, said shareholder's spouse and/or lineal descendants retain sole voting control over the transferred Shares in a successor capacity,
provided
          (d) where any Shares are held by a body corporate, to (i) the shareholders of such body corporate on a distribution in kind or otherwise by such body corporate, or (ii) an Affiliate of such body corporate if the transferee gives an undertaking to the Company that if the transferee ceases to be an Affiliate of the transferor all its Shares will, before the cessation, be transferred to another Affiliate of the transferor. For the purposes of this Article, the expression "Affiliate" means, in respect of any person, a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified, where "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise,
          (e) where any Shares are held by a partnership, to (i) one or more partners in such partnership, (ii) one or more persons who have retired from such partnership,
 
or (iii) an Affiliate of such partnership if the transferee gives an undertaking to the Company that if the transferee ceases to be an Affiliate of the transferor all its Shares will, before the cessation, be transferred to another Affiliate of the transferor;
          (f) where any shares are held by a limited partnership, to (i) the partners of the limited partnership (or their nominees) on a distribution in kind or otherwise under the relevant partnership agreement, or (ii) an Affiliate of such limited partnership if the transferee gives an undertaking to the Company that if the transferee ceases to be an Affiliate of the transferor all its Shares will, before the cessation, be transferred to another Affiliate of the transferor; or
          (g) upon or following the closing of a firmly underwritten public offering of Ordinary Shares at a per share public offering price (prior to underwriter commissions and expenses) equal to at least 75 per share and total gross offering proceeds to the Company in excess of 30,000,000,
          (h) where the shareholder proposing to transfer Shares is not a Founder Shareholder (as defined in Article 8.9(e)), and is proposing (when taken together with any other transfers of Shares completed by such shareholder in the preceding 12 month period) to make a transfer of Shares constituting less than five per cent. (5%) of the issued share capital of the Company (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis), or
          (i) where the shareholder proposing to transfer Shares is a Founder Shareholder (as defined in Article 8.9(e)), and is proposing (when taken together with any other transfers of Shares completed by such Founder Shareholder in the preceding 12 month period) to make a transfer of Shares constituting less than half of one per cent. (0.5%) of the issued share capital of the Company (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis).
     8.9 .
Tag Along Right
          (a) . Any shareholder, other than a Founder Shareholder (as defined in Article 8.9(e)), proposing to make a transfer of Shares constituting five per cent. (5%) or more, and any Founder Shareholder proposing to make a transfer of Shares constituting more than half of one per cent. (0.5%), of the issued share capital of the Company (in each case calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis), either singly or when taken together with any other transfers of Shares completed by such shareholder or Founder Shareholder in the preceding 12 month period, other than pursuant to Article 8.8 (the "Transferor"), shall deliver a written notice of the proposed transfer to the Board, following which the Board shall issue a written notice to each of the other shareholders (the "Transfer Notice"). The notice delivered by the Transferor to the Board and the Transfer Notice shall contain a description of the proposed transaction and the terms thereof, including (i) the number of Shares (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) to be transferred (the "Offered Shares"), (ii) the name of the proposed transferee, including, specifically, the name of each person to whom or in favor of whom the proposed transfer is to be made (the "Transferee"), (iii) the per share price at which the Offered Shares are proposed to be sold to the Transferee, calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis (the "Offered Price"), and (iv) the terms of payment of the Offered Price and the other terms and conditions to the proposed sale to the Transferee (the "Offered Terms and Conditions"). Each other shareholder (a "Tag Transferor") who notifies the Board and the Transferor in writing, which notice shall be irrevocable (a "Tag Notice"), within 20 calendar days (the "Tag Along Period") after receipt of the Transfer Notice, shall have the right (the "Tag Along Right") to sell a number of Shares (the "Pro Rata Entitlement") equal to the product of (i) the number of Offered Shares multiplied by (ii) a fraction (a) the numerator of which is the total number of Shares
Rights of Tag Along
 
(calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) held by such Tag Transferor, and (b) the denominator of which is the total number of issued Shares in the capital of the Company (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) to the Transferee at the Offered Price and upon the Offered Terms and Conditions. In the event that any of the other shareholders (the "Refusing Shareholders") do not serve a Tag Notice on the Transferor and on the Board prior to the expiry of the Tag Along Period, or if any Tag Transferor includes in its Tag Notice fewer Shares than its Pro Rata Entitlement, the Board shall provide written notice thereof to the Transferor and each of the Tag Transferors. Thereupon, the Transferor and each Tag Transferor shall each have the right to sell to the Transferee an additional number of Shares equal to the product of (i) the aggregate of (a) the number of Shares (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) that the Refusing Shareholders would have been entitled to sell under this Article 8.9(a), and (b) the number of Shares (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) that Tag Transferors were entitled to, but did not elect to, transfer hereunder, multiplied by (ii) a fraction (x) the numerator of which is the total number of Shares (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) held by the Transferor or such Tag Transferor, as the case may be and (y) the denominator of which is the total number of issued Shares in the capital of the Company (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) held by the Transferor and the Tag Transferors. The Transferor shall assign so much of its interest in the agreement of sale as each Tag Transferor shall be entitled to and shall request hereunder; the number of Shares to be sold by the Transferor will be reduced by the aggregate number of Shares to be sold by the Tag Transferors (in each case calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis); each Tag Transferor shall assume such part of the obligations of the Transferor under such agreement as shall relate to the sale of Shares by such Tag Transferor and the Transferor shall not sell any Shares to the Transferee unless the Transferee concurrently purchases the appropriate number of Shares from each Tag Transferor who has exercised his, her or its right to sell under this Article 8.9(a).
                 (b) . Each of the Tag Transferors shall include in its Tag Notice the number of Shares which the Tag Transferor elects to transfer (the "Tag Transfer"), which number may not, without the consent of the Transferor, exceed the number of Shares such Tag Transferor is permitted to sell pursuant to the Tag Along Right. At the closing of the Tag Transfer, the Tag Transferor must provide for sale to the Transferee, free and clear of all liens and rights of third parties, the one or more certificates, in respect of a transfer of Shares in bearer form, and an instrument of transfer duly executed by the Tag Transferor and the corresponding Share certificate(s) (if any) in respect of a transfer of Shares in registered form, which represent or relates to, as appropriate, the number of Shares which the Tag Transferor elects to transfer pursuant to the exercise of its Tag Along Right. If, in the event of a transfer of Shares (whether in bearer or registered form), the certificate or certificates representing such Shares evidences a greater number of Shares than that elected to be transferred, the Tag Transferor shall deliver such certificate or certificates to the Board prior to the closing of the Tag Transfer with instructions for the Company to promptly re-issue new certificates in appropriate denominations properly to effect the Tag Transfer. The Tag Transferors shall make such representations and warranties regarding the Company and its Subsidiaries and their respective ownership of the Shares as the Transferor may be required to make to the Transferee, , that (i) each of the Tag Transferors' respective liabilities for breach of such representations and warranties shall be limited to such Tag Transferor's proceeds of the sale of its Shares pursuant to the exercise of the Tag Along Right, (ii) if any such Tag Transferor is not involved in the business of the Company, any representations or warranties that such Tag Transferor is required to make to the Transferee with respect to the business of the Company shall be limited to the best knowledge of such Tag Transferor, and (iii) if any Tag Transferor other than a Founding Shareholder (A) is not involved in the business of the company as an officer or director (either on its own or through a representative) and (B) does not hold in excess of five per cent. (5%) of the issued share capital of the Company (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis and aggregating together all Shares held by the relevant Tag
Exercise of Tag Along Right
provided
 
Transferor and its Affiliates (as defined in Article 8.8(d)), no representations or warranties with respect to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries shall be required of such Tag Transferor.
                 (c) . Each Tag Transferor who fails to notify the Transferor prior to the expiry of the Tag Along Period of its election to exercise its Tag Along Right, or elects to exercise its Tag Along Right in respect of fewer Shares than its Pro Rata Entitlement, shall be deemed to have waived its Tag Along Right (or portion thereof) only with respect to the transaction specified in the Transfer Notice. Such waiver shall not adversely affect that Tag Transferor's rights to exercise its Tag Along Right with respect to future transfers of Shares by any shareholder.
Waiver of Tag Along Right
                 (d)  The Tag Along Right shall not be exercisable in respect of any Shares issued upon the exercise of options granted under the Skype Technologies S.A. Stock Option Plan, and any certificates issued in respect of such Shares, and any further certificates issued in replacement of any thereof, shall be legended accordingly.
Non-application of Tag Along Right.
                 (e) Definition of " For the purposes of this Article 8.9, a "Founder Shareholder" shall mean any of: (i) Niklas Zennstrm, Janus Friis Degnbol and Felidae Limited; and (ii) any firm, company, joint venture, association or partnership that is directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controlled by any of Niklas Zennstrm, Janus Friis Degnbol or Felidae Limited, where "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such firm, company, joint venture, association or partnership, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and (iii) in respect of Niklas Zennstrm and Janus Friis Degnbol, their parents and grandparents (including step parents and step grandparents), wife or partner in a marriage-like relationship, child or grandchild (including any adopted child or stepchild or step grandchild) or a trust of which any of them is a beneficiary.
Founder Shareholder".
     8.10 .
Drag Along
                 (a) . Any shareholder or group of shareholders acting in concert holding Shares which constitute (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) in aggregate, more than fifty per cent. (50%) of the issued and outstanding Shares (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis) who propose to make a transfer pursuant to terms negotiated bona fide at arm's length of all their Shares (the "Selling Shareholder(s)") to a Transferee (other than to a transferee to whom Shares may be transferred pursuant to Article 8.8), shall have the right (the "Drag Along Right") to require each of the other shareholders (the "Called Shareholders") to transfer, subject to Article 8.10(f), to the Transferee all of the Shares owned by such Called Shareholders (the "Called Shares") at the Offered Price and upon the Offered Terms and Conditions.
Right of Drag Along
                 (b) . At the closing of the transfer of Called Shares (the "Drag Transfer"), the Called Shareholders who have received notice of the exercise of the Drag Along Right must provide for sale to the Transferee, free and clear of all liens and rights of third parties, the one or more certificates, in respect of a transfer of Shares in bearer form, and an instrument of transfer duly executed by the Called Shareholder and the corresponding Share certificate(s) (if any) in respect of a transfer of Shares in registered form, which represent or relates to, as appropriate, the Called Shares and the Transferee shall provide the Board with the consideration required to be paid. At the closing of the Drag Transfer the Company shall pay the Called Shareholders, on behalf of the Transferee, the price for their Called Shares. The Company's receipt for the price shall be a good discharge to the Transferee. The Company shall hold the price in trust for the Called Shareholders without any obligation to pay interest. If a Called Shareholder fails to deliver at the closing of the Drag Transfer certificates representing its Called Shares in respect of Shares held in bearer form or an instrument of transfer duly executed by the Called Shareholder and the corresponding Share certificate(s) (if any) in respect of Called Shares held in registered form, the
Participation in Drag Along
 
Board may (and shall, if requested by the Transferee) authorise any Director to transfer the Called Shares on behalf of the Called Shareholder to the Transferee to the extent the Transferee has, by the closing of the Transfer, put the Company in funds to pay the Offered Price for the Called Shares held by the relevant Called Shareholder. A defaulting Called Shareholder shall surrender to the Company its Share certificate(s) where its Called Shares are held in bearer form and shall surrender a duly executed instrument of transfer and any Share certificate(s) (if any) where its Called Shares are held in registered form. On surrender of such certificate(s) and/or instrument of transfer, as appropriate, such defaulting Called Shareholder shall be entitled to the price for its Called Shares. The Called Shareholders shall make such representations and warranties regarding the Company and its Subsidiaries and their respective ownership of the Called Shares as the Selling Shareholder(s) may be required to make to the Transferee, , that (i) each of the Called Shareholders' respective liabilities for breach of such representations and warranties shall be limited to such Called Shareholders' proceeds of the sale of its Shares pursuant to the exercise of the Drag Along Right, (ii) if any such Called Shareholder is not involved in the business of the Company, any representations or warranties that such Called Shareholder is required to make to the Transferee with respect to the business of the Company shall be limited to the best knowledge of such Called Shareholder, and (iii) if any Called Shareholder other than a Founding Shareholder (A) is not involved in the business of the company as an officer or director (either on its own or through a representative) and (B) does not hold in excess of five per cent. (5%) of the issued share capital of the Company (calculated, in the case of the shares of Preferred Stock, on an as-if-converted into Ordinary Shares basis and aggregating together all Shares held by the Called Shareholder and its Affiliates (as defined in Article 8.8(d)), no representations or warranties with respect to the business of the Company or its subsidiaries shall be required of such Called Shareholder. All parties to the transaction shall use their reasonable endeavours to secure any approvals required to permit or enable the sale and purchase of the Called Shares, to comply as soon as practicable with all applicable laws and regulations and to execute such additional documents as are otherwise necessary or appropriate in connection therewith.
provided
                 (c) . If the Drag Along Right is to be exercised, the Transfer Notice delivered pursuant to Article 8.9(a) shall state: (i) that the Selling Shareholders giving the Transfer Notice intend to exercise their rights pursuant to this Article 8.10; (ii) the date, between 7 and 14 days later on which the sale and purchase of the Called Shares will be completed, which shall be the same date as the date on which the sale and purchase of the Selling Shareholders' Shares is completed; (iii) the Offered Price; and (iv) the Offered Terms and Conditions.
Notice
                 (d)  If any person, following the issue of a notice pursuant to Article 8.9(a), becomes a shareholder in the Company pursuant to the exercise of a pre-existing option to acquire Shares (a "New Member"), a notice shall be deemed to have been served upon the New Member on the same terms as the previous notice, and the New Member shall thereupon be bound to sell and transfer all such Shares acquired by him to the Transferor or as the Transferor may direct and the provisions of this Article 8.10 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the New Member save that the completion of the transfer of the New Member's Shares shall take place forthwith upon the notice being deemed served on the New Member.
New Members.
                 (e)  The Tag Along Right shall not be exercisable with respect to a proposed transfer of Shares where the Drag Along Right is exercised with respect to that transfer.
Drag Along Right Priority.
                 (f)  The Drag Along Right shall only be exercisable if the relevant transfer will result in each Called Shareholder receiving a consideration comprising cash, cash equivalents, readily realisable securities or other consideration which will not result in: (a) any Called Shareholder incurring a liability to tax or (b) the level of the liability to tax of any Called Shareholder in respect of the receipt of such consideration being determined, in each case prior to such Called Shareholder actually receiving and being able to dispose of the consideration for the transfer of its Shares for value.
Form of consideration.
 
     8.11
Compliance with Law
The Company and the shareholders of the Company exercising the Tag Along Right or the Drag Along Right under Article 8.9 and 8.10, respectively, shall procure that the exercise of such rights is conducted in accordance with the requirements of all applicable laws and regulations."
 
 
By signing hereunder for acceptance, the Company acknowledges and accepts the existence of this Agreement and the transfer of the Sale Shares for the purposes of Article 40 of the Luxembourg Law on Commercial Companies dated 10 August 1915, as amended and of Article 1690 of the Luxembourg Civil Code, takes notice of the terms thereof and undertakes to duly register forthwith the Purchaser as shareholder in its register of shareholders upon successful Completion.
 
For and on behalf of:
eBay Inc.
 
For and on behalf of:
Skype Technologies S.A.
 
PLEASE SPECIFY BY PLACING "X" IN THE APPROPRIATE BOX BELOW YOUR CHOICE FOR
ONE
OF:
DO
NOT
PLACE "X" IN MORE THAN ONE BOX  BY DOING SO YOUR PARTICIPATION MAY BE DEEMED TO BE INVALID.

 
Exhibit 2.2
      (this "") is being executed and delivered as of September 11, 2005 by and among , a Delaware corporation (the ""), , a limited company registered under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg (the ""), and the parties identified on . Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Section 1.
This Earn Out Agreement
Agreement
eBay Inc.
Purchaser
Skype Technologies S.A.
Company
Schedule I
     Concurrently with the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Purchaser, the Company, and the shareholders and warrantholders of the Company (collectively, the "") are entering into a Sale and Purchase Agreement (the ""), pursuant to which, subject to the terms and conditions thereof, the Sellers are agreeing to sell to the Purchaser and/or an Affiliate of the Purchaser nominated by the Purchaser, and the Purchaser and/or an Affiliate of the Purchaser nominated by the Purchaser is agreeing to acquire from the Sellers, the entire issued share capital of the Company. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Purchase Agreement.
A. 
Sellers
Purchase Agreement
     The parties to this Agreement wish to provide for certain rights and obligations of the Purchaser, the Company, the Earn Out Sellers and the Earn Out Representative in connection with the post-Completion management of the Company and the delivery by the Purchaser to the Earn Out Sellers of any Earn Out Election Per Share Post-Completion Consideration.
B. 
     For good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and as an inducement to the Sellers and the Purchaser to enter into the Purchase Agreement, the parties to this Agreement, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
.
1.
Definitions
     For purposes of this Agreement:
1.1
     "" shall be the amount, if any, by which: (i) the product of: (A) the Earn Out Election Fraction; (B) the Initial Acceleration Amount; (ii) the aggregate of all Earn Out Amounts paid (in cash or in Purchaser Shares) by the Purchaser pursuant to Section 2 prior to the date of payment of the Acceleration Amount.
(a)
Acceleration Amount
multiplied by
exceeds
     "" shall mean any of the following:
(b)
Acceleration Event
     a direct or indirect sale or transfer (in a single transaction or through a series of related transactions) to any third party (other than a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Purchaser (disregarding directors' qualifying shares and similar arrangements for purposes of determining whether a Subsidiary is wholly-owned by the Purchaser for this purpose), provided that: (A) such Subsidiary complies with Section 4.6 as if it were a party to this Agreement
(i)
 
(and, in the case of a sale of assets, as if the term "Articles" referred to the charter document of such Subsidiary); (B) such Subsidiary assumes all of the Purchaser's obligations under this Agreement; and (C) the Purchaser remains liable for any breach of this Agreement by such Subsidiary) of: (1) securities representing greater than 50% of the outstanding voting power, or economic interest in, the Company (whether by way of a sale of securities, merger or otherwise); or (2) all or substantially all of the assets of the Group, taken as a whole (it being understood that a sale by the Purchaser of the outstanding securities of a wholly-owned Subsidiary held by the Purchaser (disregarding directors' qualifying shares and similar arrangements for purposes of determining whether a Subsidiary is wholly-owned by the Purchaser for this purpose) shall constitute a sale of all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary) (any transaction contemplated by this clause "(i)" being referred to as a "");
Sale
     the commencement by the Purchaser (whether by itself or by an Affiliate of the Purchaser (provided that in the case of a Group Company, such action is taken at the express direction of the Purchaser)) of a process intended to result in a Sale as evidenced by actions similar to those taken by the Company and the Sellers in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, provided that the taking of the actions in clauses "(A)" and "(B)" of this sentence shall conclusively establish the commencement of such process: (A) the preparation and circulation by the Purchaser (whether by itself or by an Affiliate of the Purchaser (provided that in the case of a Group Company, such action is taken at the express direction of the Purchaser)) of an offering memorandum to and in connection with the prospective solicitation of bids from (or the delivery by the Purchaser (whether by itself or by an Affiliate of the Purchaser (provided that in the case of a Group Company, such action is taken at the express direction of the Purchaser)), subject to the terms of a confidentiality agreement, of confidential and proprietary information relating to the Group Companies to), and the solicitation of bids from, third parties (other than Affiliates of the Purchaser) with respect to a possible Sale; and (B) the involvement of Senior Management (at the request of the Purchaser) in more than an insignificant manner in such process;
(ii)
     the failure of the Purchaser Directors (as defined in Section 4.3), at a duly called meeting of the Company Board, to vote in favor of the approval of any proposed annual Budget or business plan recommended by the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Company Directors, after consultation with the Company's President, to the Company Board (which proposed Budget or business plan shall have been approved by the Company Directors) unless: (A) such proposed Budget or business plan relates to any business lines that do not constitute business lines of the Company existing as of the date of this Agreement or that have previously been approved by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote, or extensions thereof that are reasonably related to such existing or previously approved business lines; (B) such proposed Budget or business plan does not reasonably contemplate an EBIT Margin for the fiscal year to which such proposed Budget or business plan relates at least as high as the EBIT Margin
(iii)
 
set forth in the Company Projections for the same fiscal year, unless an amendment to or deviation from such EBIT Margin set forth in the Company Projections has been previously approved by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote; (C) such proposed Budget or business plan is not otherwise commercially reasonable; or (D) the Company Board approves such proposed Budget or business plan by a Majority Vote notwithstanding the failure of the Purchaser Directors to vote in favor of approval of such proposed Budget or business plan;
     a material breach by the Purchaser of its obligations, if any, under Section 4.5 to provide any external funding required by the annual Budgets approved by the Company Board in accordance with the applicable provision of Section 4.4, which breach, if curable, has not been cured within 30 days after receipt by the Purchaser of written notice thereof from the Earn Out Representative;
(iv)
     any increase or decrease in the number of members of the Company Board effected by the Purchaser, acting in its capacity as the controlling shareholder of the Company, without the approval of the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote;
(v)
     any appointment by the Purchaser, acting in its capacity as controlling shareholder of the Company, of an individual to fill a vacancy created by the resignation, removal, incapacity or death of a Company Director (as defined in Section 4.3) without the approval of the other Company Director;
(vi)
     a failure by the Purchaser Directors to attend any regularly scheduled meeting of the Company Board with the effect of preventing a Required Quorum to be present at such meeting, provided that: (A) another meeting of the Company Board is held within 30 days after such regularly scheduled meeting; (B) prior written notice of such subsequent meeting is provided to each member of the Company Board at least five Business Days prior to such subsequent meeting; and (C) the Purchaser Directors also fail (except by reason of force majeure) to attend such subsequent meeting;
(vii)
     the approval by the Purchaser Directors of the appointment of an individual to serve as President of the Company, which individual was not approved by the Company Directors in accordance with Section 4.1(b), unless: (A) such appointment was not approved by the Company Board; or (B) the individual is replaced by a nominee approved by the Company Directors within 30 days following such individual's appointment by the Company Board;
(viii)
     the actions described in clauses "(A)" through "(F)" of this sentence occur: (A) the Purchaser (or any controlled Affiliate of the Purchaser other than a Group Company) and a Group Company enter into a Related Party Transaction that, as of the execution of the agreement relating thereto could reasonably be expected to result in an adverse impact in a material respect on the
(ix)
 
ability of the Earn Out Sellers to earn any Earn Out Amount (an ""); (B) the Adverse Transaction is not approved or ratified by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote; (C) the Adverse Transaction is not authorized by any member of Senior Management (other than the President, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel of the Company); (D) if the Chief Executive Officer or the Vice President, Strategy of the Company or any Company Director has actual knowledge of the Adverse Transaction and the material terms and conditions thereof, such person communicated an objection to the Purchaser with respect to such Adverse Transaction; (E) within 45 days after the Chief Executive Officer or any Company Director has actual knowledge that the Purchaser (or any controlled Affiliate of the Purchaser other than a Group Company) and any Group Company entered into the Adverse Transaction and has actual knowledge of the material terms and conditions thereof, the Company delivers to the Purchaser a written notice in which the Company demands that the Purchaser (or the applicable controlled Affiliate of the Purchaser) rescind the Adverse Transaction and return the parties to substantially the positions they were in prior thereto; and (F) within 10 Business Days after receipt of the written notice described in clause "(E)" of this sentence, the Purchaser (or the controlled Affiliate of the Purchaser) does not rescind the Adverse Transaction and return the parties substantially to such positions; and
Adverse Transaction
     the liquidation or winding up of any Group Company without the approval of the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote, unless in the case of a Group Company that is not the Company, such liquidation or winding up could not reasonably be expected to have an adverse impact in any material respect on the ability of the Earn Out Sellers to earn any Earn Out Amount;
(x)
, that: (A) a sale of any or all shares of the Purchaser (whether by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise) shall not constitute an Acceleration Event; (B) a sale of substantially all of the assets of the Purchaser (including the shares of the Purchaser's Subsidiaries) shall not constitute an Acceleration Event; and (C) a sale of substantially all of the assets of the Purchaser (excluding the shares of the Purchaser's Subsidiaries) and substantially all of the assets of the Purchaser's Subsidiaries shall not constitute a Sale or an Acceleration Event.
provided, however
     "", for a particular month, shall mean a user of a Company Communication Product who has launched or logged into a Company Communication Product within 30 days prior to the end of that month; , that a user of a Company Communication Product shall not constitute an Active User if, in the case of a Company Communication Product that is run as a stand-alone application on a desktop operating system such as Microsoft Windows, Linux or Mac OS-X, such Company Communication Product does not allow the user to disable the auto-launch feature of such Company Communication Product (it being understood that the Company's current Company Communication Product offerings satisfy this requirement).
(c)
Active User
provided, however
     "" of any entity shall mean any other entity who either directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries is in control of, is controlled by, or is under
(d)
Affiliate
 
common control with, such entity. For purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any entity means the power to direct the management and policies of such entity, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
     "" shall mean the sum of (without duplication): (i) the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares outstanding immediately prior to Completion; (ii) the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares issuable upon the conversion of Preferred Shares: (A) outstanding immediately prior to Completion; and (B) issuable upon the exercise of Warrants outstanding immediately prior to Completion; and (iii) the aggregate number of Ordinary Shares issuable upon the exercise of Options outstanding immediately prior to Completion.
(e)
Aggregate Outstanding Share Number
     "", as of the end of any particular calendar quarter, shall mean the average of the number of Active Users for each of the 12 months within the four immediately preceding consecutive calendar quarters.
(f)
Average User Number
     "" shall mean the number of Active Users set forth in clause "(g)" of Schedule 1.1.
(g)
Average User Target
     "" shall, subject to the proviso to Section 2.1(b), be determined as follows:
(h)
Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount
     if the Gross Profit Amount for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 is less than or equal to 85% of the Gross Profit Target, then the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be zero; and
(i)
     if the Gross Profit Amount for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 is greater than 85% of the Gross Profit Target, then the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be the product of: (A) the Earn Out Election Fraction; (B) 500,000,000; (C) the fraction having a numerator equal to the amount by which: (1) the lesser of: (x) the Gross Profit Amount for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009; and (y) the Gross Profit Target; (2) 85% of the Gross Profit Target, and having a denominator equal to 15% of the Gross Profit Target.
(ii)
multiplied by
multiplied by
exceeds
     "" shall be the amount determined by dividing: (i) the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount; (ii) the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares.
(i)
Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount
by
     "" shall, subject to the proviso to Section 2.1(a), be determined as follows:
(j)
Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount
     if: (A) the Net Revenue Amount for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 is less than or equal to 85% of the Net Revenue Target; or (B) the Gross Profit Margin for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 is less than the Specified Gross Profit Margin, then the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be zero; and
(i)
 
     if: (A) the Net Revenue Amount for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 is greater than 85% of the Net Revenue Target; and (B) the Gross Profit Margin for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 is greater than or equal to the Specified Gross Profit Margin, then the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be the product of: (1) the Earn Out Election Fraction; (2) 500,000,000; (3) the fraction having a numerator equal to the amount by which: (x) the lesser of: (aa) the Net Revenue Amount for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009; and (bb) the Net Revenue Target; (y) 85% of the Net Revenue Target, and having a denominator equal to 15% of the Net Revenue Target.
(ii)
multiplied by
multiplied by
exceeds
     "" shall be the amount determined by dividing: (i) the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount; (ii) the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares.
(k)
Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount
by
     "" shall, subject to the proviso to Section 2.1(c), be determined as follows:
(l)
Base User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount
     if the Average User Number for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 is less than or equal to 85% of the Average User Target, then the Base User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be zero; and
(i)
     if the Average User Number for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009 is greater than 85% of the Average User Target, then the Base User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be the product of: (A) the Earn Out Election Fraction; (B) 500,000,000; (C) the fraction having a numerator equal to the amount by which: (1) the lesser of: (x) the Average User Number for the period from July 1, 2008 through June 30, 2009; and (y) the Average User Target; (2) 85% of the Average User Target, and having a denominator equal to 15% of the Average User Target.
(ii)
multiplied by
multiplied by
exceeds
     "" shall be the amount determined by dividing: (i) the Base User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount; (ii) the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares.
(m)
Base User-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount
by
     "" shall be determined as follows:
(n)
Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount
     if the Gross Profit Amount for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 is less than or equal to the Gross Profit Target, then the Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be zero; and
(i)
     if the Gross Profit Amount for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 is greater than the Gross Profit Target, then the Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be the product of: (A) the Earn Out Election Fraction; (B) 166,670,000; (C) the fraction having a numerator equal to the amount by which: (1) the lesser of: (x) the Gross Profit Amount for the period from January 1, 2008 through
(ii)
multiplied by
multiplied by
 
December 31, 2008; and (y) 125% of the Gross Profit Target; (2) the Gross Profit Target, and having a denominator equal to 25% of the Gross Profit Target.
exceeds
     "" shall be the amount determined by dividing: (i) the Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount; (ii) the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares.
(o)
Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount
by
     "" shall be determined as follows:
(p)
Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount
     If: (A) the Net Revenue Amount for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 is less than or equal to the Net Revenue Target; or (B) the Gross Profit Margin for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 is less than the Specified Gross Profit Margin, then the Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be zero; and
(i)
     if: (i) the Net Revenue Amount for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 is greater than the Net Revenue Target; and (ii) the Gross Profit Margin for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 is greater than or equal to the Specified Gross Profit Margin, then the Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be the product of: (A) the Earn Out Election Fraction; (B) 166,670,000; (C) the fraction having a numerator equal to the amount by which: (1) the lesser of: (x) the Net Revenue Amount for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008; and (y) 125% of the Net Revenue Target; (2) the Net Revenue Target, and having a denominator equal to 25% of the Net Revenue Target.
(ii)
multiplied by
multiplied by
exceeds
     "" shall be the amount determined by dividing: (i) the Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount; (ii) the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares.
(q)
Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount
by
     "" shall be determined as follows:
(r)
Bonus User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount
     if the Average User Number for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 is less than or equal to the Average User Target, then the Bonus User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be zero; and
(i)
     if the Average User Number for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008 is greater than the Average User Target, then the Bonus User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be the product of: (A) the Earn Out Election Fraction; (B) 166,660,000; (C) the fraction having a numerator equal to the amount by which: (1) the lesser of: (x) the Average User Number for the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008; and (y) 125% of the Average User Target; (2) the Average User Target, and having a denominator equal to 25% of the Average User Target.
(ii)
multiplied by
multiplied by
exceeds
 
     "" shall be the amount determined by dividing: (i) the Bonus User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount; (ii) the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares.
(s)
Bonus User-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount
by
     "" shall mean any annual or quarterly budget for the Group in substantially the form of, and containing the information of the type described in, the budget template initialed on each page by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer of the Purchaser, a copy of which has been provided by the Company to the Purchaser prior to the date hereof.
(t)
Budget
     "" shall mean a day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which banks are open for business in London and Luxembourg.
(u)
Business Day
     "" shall mean the board of directors of the Company.
(v)
Company Board
     "" shall mean any product of a Group Company that includes voice or video communications over the Internet as at least one of the principal components thereof.
(w)
Company Communication Product
     "" shall mean any product, service or other offering of any Group Company that reasonably relates to: (i) the business lines of a Group Company existing as of the date of this Agreement or any extensions thereof that are reasonably related to such existing business lines; (ii) new business lines that are approved by the Company Board by a Supermajority in accordance with Section 4.4(c); or (iii) new business lines that are specifically referred to in the Company Projections.
(x)
Company Offering
     "" shall mean the yearly and quarterly projections of the Company dated September 9, 2005, initialed on each page by the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer of the Purchaser, a copy of which has been provided by the Company to the Purchaser prior to the date hereof (it being understood that such projections may be amended in writing from time to time with the approval of the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote).
(y)
Company Projections
     "" shall mean completion of the sale and purchase of the Sale Shares under, and the other matters provided for in, this Agreement in accordance with the provisions of Clause 8 of the Purchase Agreement.
(z)
Completion
     "" shall mean: (i) the direct and indirect costs of all Company Offerings, including product purchase or manufacturing costs, distribution or delivery costs, product warranty and money back guarantee costs, royalties, customer service and support costs, amortization of capitalized software, purchased technology or technology licenses and depreciation of fixed assets, network operating and interconnect costs, allocable facilities costs, salary, benefits, travel and other specific costs attributable to employees, non-income based taxes, fees and tariffs incurred in delivering the Company Offerings, account collections costs and provisions for uncollectible accounts receivable, credit (debit) card and cash payment services costs (ACH) (expressed in Euro and calculated in accordance with the Specified Accounting Principles and all applicable Laws); and (ii) the Company's share of costs incurred by Tel-online Limited from any
(aa)
Cost of Revenue
 
product offerings of the type included in the definition of "Company Offering," as Tel-online Limited is structured as of the date of this Agreement (expressed in Euro and calculated in accordance with all applicable Laws); , Cost of Revenue shall exclude: (x) the impact of amortization of purchased intangibles (purchase accounting adjustments) or stock compensation costs consistent with the Specified Accounting Principles; and (y) all direct and indirect costs incurred by the Group associated with any Excluded Revenue.
provided, however
     "" shall mean each of the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, the Base User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, the Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, the Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount and the Bonus User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount.
(bb)
Earn Out Amount
     "" shall be the fraction having a numerator equal to the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares and having a denominator equal to the Aggregate Outstanding Share Number.
(cc)
Earn Out Election Fraction
     "" shall mean each Ordinary Share outstanding immediately prior to Completion with respect to which an Earn Out Election has been made.
(dd)
Earn Out Election Shares
     "" shall mean the period commencing on January 1, 2006 and ending on the earliest of: (i) December 31, 2008, if each of the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount and the Base User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount has become payable to the Earn Out Sellers on or prior to March 31, 2009 (it being understood that for purposes of this clause "(i)" all Objection Notices shall be disregarded); (ii) June 30, 2009; and (iii) the date of the occurrence of an Unwaived Acceleration Event.
(ee)
Earn Out Period
     "" shall mean the person appointed in accordance with Section 5.1 to act on behalf of the Earn Out Sellers, or any successor Earn Out Representative, also appointed in accordance with Section 5.1.
(ff)
Earn Out Representative
     "" shall mean the Sellers holding Earn Out Election Shares at Completion and their successors and permitted assigns.
(gg)
Earn Out Sellers
     "", for any particular period, shall mean the consolidated earnings of the Group before interest and taxes during such period determined in a manner consistent with the Budget (excluding any Excluded Revenue and any direct and indirect costs incurred by the Group associated with any Excluded Revenue) the Net Revenue during such period (calculated in the same manner as EBIT Margin is calculated in accordance with the Specified Accounting Principles).
(hh)
EBIT Margin
divided by
     "" shall mean, for the purpose of translating an amount denominated in a currency other than Euro into Euro as of a specified date, the closing mid-point rate for exchanges between the relevant currency and Euro on the Business
(ii)
Exchange Rate
 
Day for which that rate is so quoted in the Financial Times (London edition) immediately prior to such specified date.
     "" shall mean, in relation to anywhere in the world, any supra-national, state, municipal or local government (including any subdivision, court, administrative agency or commission or other authority thereof) or any other supranational, governmental, intergovernmental, quasi-governmental authority, body, department or organisation, including the European Union, or any regulatory body appointed by any of the foregoing.
(jj)
Governmental Entity
     "" shall mean the amount in Euro by which the aggregate Net Revenue during a particular period the aggregate Cost of Revenue incurred during such period, in each case calculated in accordance with the Specified Accounting Principles and all applicable Laws.
(kk)
Gross Profit
exceeds
     "", for the period ended as of the end of any particular calendar quarter, shall be the aggregate amount of the Gross Profit during the four immediately preceding consecutive calendar quarters.
(ll)
Gross Profit Amount
     "", for the period ended as of the end of any particular calendar quarter, shall be the fraction having a numerator equal to the Gross Profit Amount as of the end of such calendar quarter and having a denominator equal to the Net Revenue Amount as of the end of such calendar quarter.
(mm)
Gross Profit Margin
     "" means the amount set forth in clause "(nn)" of Schedule 1.1.
(nn)
Gross Profit Target
     "" shall mean the net present value (calculated using a discount factor equal to the Specified Discount Factor per annum) of the gross proceeds received by the Purchaser and other equity holders of any Group Company from a Sale, including: (i) the value of any securities received by such persons in the Sale that are traded on a securities exchange or through the Nasdaq National Market, which shall be valued at the average of the closing prices of the securities on such exchange or quotation system over the 10-day period ending three days prior to the consummation of the Sale; (ii) the value of any non-cash proceeds, other than publicly-traded securities referred to in clause "(i)" above, which shall be valued at the fair market value of such proceeds as determined by an independent appraiser chosen by the Earn Out Representative with the consent of the Purchaser (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); and (iii) any debt or capital lease obligations assumed or discharged by the buyer in the Sale or to which such Group Company is subject as of the date of completion of the Sale, which shall be included in Gross Sale Proceeds at its principal amount or accreted value, as the case may be, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
(oo)
Gross Sale Proceeds
     "" shall mean, collectively, the Company and the Subsidiaries (as defined in the Purchase Agreement).
(pp)
Group
     "" shall mean a member of the Group.
(qq)
Group Company
 
     "" shall mean  900,000,000; that if a Sale is consummated during the Earn Out Period, then the Initial Acceleration Amount shall be calculated as follows:
(rr)
Initial Acceleration Amount
provided, however,
     if the Gross Sale Proceeds are less than or equal to the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(i)  1" of Schedule 1.1, then the Initial Acceleration Amount shall be the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(i)  2" of Schedule 1.1;
(i)
     if the Gross Sale Proceeds are greater than the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(ii)  1" of Schedule 1.1 but less than or equal to the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(ii)  2" of Schedule 1.1, then the Initial Acceleration Amount shall be equal to the sum of: (A) the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(ii)  3" of Schedule 1.1; (B) the product of: (1) the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(ii)  4" of Schedule 1.1; (2) the fraction having a numerator equal to the amount by which: (x) the Gross Sale Proceeds; (y) the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(ii)  5" of Schedule 1.1, and having a denominator equal to the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(ii)  6" of Schedule 1.1; and
(ii)
plus
multiplied by
exceeds
     if the Gross Sale Proceeds are greater than the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(iii)  1" of Schedule 1.1, then the Initial Acceleration Amount shall be equal to the sum of: (A) the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(iii)  2" of Schedule 1.1; (B) the product of: (1) the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(iii)  3" of Schedule 1.1; (2) the fraction having a numerator equal to the amount by which: (x) the lesser of: (aa) the Gross Sale Proceeds; and (bb) the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(iii)  4" of Schedule 1.1; (y) the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(iii)  5" of Schedule 1.1, and having a denominator equal to the amount set forth in clause "(rr)(iii)  6" of Schedule 1.1.
(iii)
plus
multiplied by
exceeds
     "" shall mean: (i) revenue from the sale of Company Offerings by any Group Company to the Purchaser or any Subsidiary of the Purchaser (other than any Group Company), whether or not settled in cash; and (ii) a portion of any revenue derived by the Purchaser or any Subsidiary of the Purchaser (other than any Group Company) from the sale by the Purchaser or any such Subsidiary to unaffiliated third parties of a product or service that includes a Company Offering as a component thereof, in each case based on terms negotiated between the Purchaser and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, with the approval of the Company Board by Supermajority Vote (it being understood that: (A) such terms shall be: (1) based on commercially reasonable factors with respect to comparable transactions, including: (x) the price paid by unaffiliated third parties to a Group Company for a comparable Company Offering; and (y) the price received by the Purchaser from unaffiliated third parties for a comparable product or service that does not include the Company Offering as a component thereof (if no pricing is available under clause "(x)" of this sentence); (2) consistent with, and at least as favorable in the aggregate to the Purchaser as those in, comparable commercial agreements between the Company and unaffiliated third parties; and (3) consistent with, and at least as favorable in the aggregate to the Group Company as those in, comparable commercial agreements between the Purchaser and unaffiliated third parties; and (B) any dispute regarding the amount of Inter-Company Revenue to be
(ss)
Inter-Company Revenue
 
included in Net Revenue that cannot be resolved between the Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative shall be submitted for resolution in accordance with Section 3.2).
     "" shall mean any of the following:
(tt)
Intervention Event
     the average Gross Profit over any two consecutive calendar quarters during the Earn Out Period is less than the percentage set forth in clause "(tt)(i)" of Schedule 1.1 of the average projected quarterly Gross Profit over the same period as set forth in the Company Projections (unless any deviation from the Company Projections is approved by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote);
(i)
     the average Gross Profit over any three consecutive quarters during the Earn Out Period is less than the percentage set forth in clause "(tt)(ii)" of Schedule 1.1 of the average projected quarterly Gross Profit over the same period as set forth in the Company Projections (unless any deviation from the Company Projections is approved by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote);
(ii)
     any action is taken by any Group Company pursuant to any Budget or business plan, or any transaction or arrangement is implemented or effected by any Group Company, if such Budget, business plan, transaction or arrangement was required to be, but was not, presented to the Company Board for approval by a Supermajority Vote; that the entering into of any Related Party Transaction or other immaterial transaction or arrangement shall not constitute an Intervention Event if either: (x) within 30 days after receipt by the Earn Out Representative of notice thereof from the Purchaser, such transaction is either: (A) ratified by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote; or (B) terminated and any Group Company involved in or affected by such transaction is put back in the same position as if such transaction had never occurred; or (y) the Related Party Transaction involves the Purchaser or any controlled Affiliate of the Purchaser (other than a Group Company).
(iii)
provided, however,
     any Group Company shall have failed to operate in accordance with the business plans and Budgets approved by the Company Board in accordance with the applicable provision of Section 4.4 (unless any deviation therefrom is also approved by the Company Board in accordance with the applicable provision of Section 4.4), which failure: (A) has resulted in (or could reasonably be expected to result in) material damage to the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Group taken as a whole; and (B) resulted directly or indirectly from any willful or grossly negligent act or omission by any member of Senior Management appointed by the Nominating Committee or by any Earn Out Seller (whether in such person's capacity as an Earn Out Seller, as a member of Senior Management of the Company or otherwise), and if curable, has not been cured within 30 days after receipt by the Earn Out Representative of notice thereof from the Purchaser;
(iv)
 
     any Governmental Entity shall have commenced an investigation of, or Proceeding against any Group Company or any member of Senior Management (other than the President, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel) of any Group Company with respect to a possible violation of Law by any Group Company, by any member of Senior Management (other than the President, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel) of any Group Company or with respect to any Company Offering and such investigation or Proceeding is: (A) reasonably expected to result in a finding of wrongdoing on the part of any Group Company or member of Senior Management (other than the President, Chief Financial Officer or General Counsel) of any Group Company; and (B) reasonably expected to result in material damages or a material adverse effect on the Group, taken as a whole, or on the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; that no investigation or Proceeding referred to in this clause "(v)" with respect to a possible violation of Law shall constitute an Intervention Event if, within 45 days after receipt by the Earn Out Representative of notice of such investigation or Proceeding from the Purchaser: (1) any and all actions or omissions that are in violation of Law have entirely ceased; and (2) such investigation or Proceeding did not result in, and is no longer reasonably expected to result in, material damages to or a material adverse effect on the Group, taken as a whole, or on the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
(v)
provided, however,
     any Group Company provides materially inaccurate financial information to the Purchaser with respect to the operations or financial results of the Group, taken as a whole; , that an Intervention Event shall not be deemed to have occurred under this clause "(vi)" if: (A) the materially inaccurate financial information that was provided to the Purchaser was so provided in accordance with the accounting principles, procedures and practices provided to the Group Companies by the Purchaser and the application of such principles, procedures and/or practices were the primary cause of such financial information being materially inaccurate; or (B) (1) the materially inaccurate financial information was not provided in connection with the preparation of any quarterly or annual financial statements of the Purchaser; (2) the materially inaccurate financial information was not purposefully inaccurate; (3) prior to the public announcement by the Purchaser of its financial results or the public filing by the Purchaser of its quarterly or annual financial statements, the Group Company provided the Purchaser with accurate financial information in place of such materially inaccurate financial information; (4) the provision of such materially inaccurate financial information did not result in, and is not reasonably expected to result in, material damages to or a material adverse effect on the Group, taken as a whole, or on the Purchaser and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; and (5) except for information of the type described in clause "(A)," none of the Group Companies has repeatedly provided materially inaccurate financial information to the Purchaser; or
(vi)
provided, however
     a failure by the Company Directors to attend any regularly scheduled meeting of the Company Board with the effect of preventing a
(vii)
 
Required Quorum to be present at such meeting, provided that (A) another meeting of the Company Board is held within 30 days after such regularly scheduled meeting; (B) prior written notice is provided to each member of the Company Board at least five Business Days prior to such subsequent meeting; and (C) the Company Directors also fail (except by reason of force majeure) to attend such subsequent meeting.
     "" shall mean all legislation, orders, judgments, decrees and Regulations, including regarding telecommunications, law enforcement, data protection and anti-trust, competition and equivalent legislation and the expression "Law" shall be construed accordingly.
(uu)
Laws
     "" shall mean the affirmative vote of at least three out of the six members of the Company Board, with at least three affirmative votes from any combination of the Company Directors, the Purchaser Directors and the President.
(vv)
Majority Vote
     "" shall mean the consolidated revenue of the Company (expressed in Euro and calculated in accordance with the Specified Accounting Principles and all applicable Laws) that is attributable to (without duplication): (A) the sale or license by any Group Company of Company Offerings, including Inter-Company Revenue, related pricing discounts and allowances, returns and refunds, promotions with contra-revenue components (coupons), fraud losses, revenue-based fees and taxes and similar items; (B) revenue from any joint venture or entity in which the Company has made an equity investment to the extent (and in the amount) that such revenue can be reported as revenue by the Purchaser in accordance with US generally accepted accounting principles; and (C) the Company's share of revenues earned by Tel-online Limited from any product offerings of the type included in the definition of "Company Offering," as Tel-online Limited is structured, as of the date of this Agreement; that Net Revenue shall not include revenue resulting from:
(ww)
Net Revenue
less
provided, however,
     inter-company transactions between the Group Companies;
(i)
     transactions between the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries and any Group Company or between or among the Purchaser or any of its Subsidiaries and third parties that are not expressly included in the definition of "Inter-Company Revenue";
(ii)
     transactions that will not ultimately be settled in cash, including barter transactions, unless such transactions are included in the definition of "Inter-Company Revenue";
(iii)
     acquisitions;
(iv)
     equity investments and joint ventures, to the extent that the Purchaser is not able to report such revenue as revenue in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles (except as set forth in clause "(C)" above); or
(v)
 
     non-recurring, one-time or non-operating items calculated in accordance with the Specified Accounting Principles (all revenue that is excluded from Net Revenue being referred to as "").
(vi)
Excluded Revenue
     "", for the period ended as of the end of any particular calendar quarter, shall be the aggregate amount of Net Revenue during the four immediately preceding consecutive calendar quarters.
(xx)
Net Revenue Amount
     "" shall mean the amount set forth in clause "(yy)" of Schedule 1.1.
(yy)
Net Revenue Target
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.7.
(zz)
Plan
     "" shall mean any proceedings or action arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any other document referred to herein.
(aaa)
Proceedings
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c).
(bbb)
Related Party Transaction
     "Required Quorum" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(b).
(ccc)
     "Sale" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.1(b)(i).
(ddd)
     "" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer, Vice President, Strategy, President, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and other officers of the Company in charge of each of the following functional areas: marketing, business development, technology, products and operations.
(eee)
Senior Management
     "" shall mean United States generally accepted accounting principles as applied by the Company (acting reasonably) in consultation with (and after taking into account the views of) the Purchaser in connection with the preparation by the Company (prior to Completion) of the Company's US generally accepted accounting principles-based balance sheet, statement of operations, statement of cash flows and statement of stockholders' equity as of and for the period ended December 31, 2004 (such financial statements being referred to as the "" and such accounting principles as so applied being referred to as the ""); , that for purposes of the calculation and/or determination of Net Revenue, Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, Gross Margin, EBIT Margin and "non-recurring, one-time or non-operating items" pursuant to this Agreement:
(fff)
Specified Accounting Principles
Baseline Financial Statements
Baseline Accounting Principles
provided, however
     the Baseline Accounting Principles may be modified by the Purchaser (acting reasonably and after consultation with its outside auditors and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company) to the extent that: (A) a modification to the Baseline Accounting Principles is required by United States generally accepted accounting principles as such generally accepted accounting principles may exist from time to time from Completion until the end of the Earn Out Period; or (B) the Company incorrectly applied United States generally
(i)
 
accepted accounting principles in connection with the preparation by the Company of the Baseline Financial Statements; and
     if any transaction occurs after the preparation of the Baseline Financial Statements and there is no accounting principle that was applied by the Company in connection with the preparation of the Baseline Financial Statements that properly would apply to such transaction, then United States generally accepted accounting principles in effect as of the time of the occurrence of such transaction shall be applied by the Purchaser (consistent with the Purchaser's application of such principles across its business generally (taking into account any differences between the nature of the Purchaser's business and the nature of the Company's business) and which treatment shall be finally determined by the Purchaser, acting reasonably after consultation with its outside auditors and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company) with respect to such transaction.
(ii)
     "" means the discount factor set forth in clause "(ggg)" of Schedule 1.1.
(ggg)
Specified Discount Factor
     "" means the Gross Profit Margin set forth in clause "(hhh)" of Schedule 1.1.
(hhh)
Specified Gross Profit Margin
     "" means the number set forth in clause "(iii)" of Schedule 1.1.
(iii)
Specified Option Number
     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.
(jjj)
Stock Payment Election
     "" shall mean, with respect to any person, any entity in which such person directly or indirectly owns, beneficially or of record: (a) an amount of voting securities of or other interests in such entity that is sufficient to enable such person to elect at least a majority of the members of such entity's board of directors or other governing body; or (b) at least 50% of the outstanding equity, voting or financial interests in such entity.
(kkk)
Subsidiary
     "Supermajority Vote" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.4(c).
(lll)
     "Transferee" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5.
(mmm)
     "" shall mean any Acceleration Event with respect to which the Earn Out Representative has not waived the Earn Out Sellers' rights or the Purchaser's obligations under Section 2.2 in connection with such Acceleration Event.
(nnn)
Unwaived Acceleration Event
2.
Payment of Earn Out.
     Subject to Section 2.3, unless an Unwaived Acceleration Event has occurred:
2.1
          on or prior to September 30, 2009, the Purchaser shall, in respect of each Earn Out Election Share, deliver to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to the former
(a)
 
holder thereof (or to such former holder's Transferee) the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount, if any; , that: (i) if as of the end of any calendar quarter during the period commencing on December 31, 2006 and ending on March 31, 2009: (A) the Net Revenue Amount is greater than or equal to the Net Revenue Target; and (B) the Gross Profit Margin is at least the Specified Gross Profit Margin, then: (1) the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be deemed to be  500,000,000; and (2) the Purchaser shall make the payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(a) on or prior to the date that is 90 days following the end of such calendar quarter; and (ii) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this clause "(a)," if the Earn Out Representative delivers an Objection Notice (as defined in Section 3.2) and such Objection Notice contains an objection with respect to the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, then the Purchaser shall: (x) make the payment of any undisputed portion of the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount during the time frame set forth above; and (y) make any other payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(a) within five Business Days (or, in the event the Purchaser makes the Stock Payment Election, within 20 days) after the dispute referred to in such Objection Notice is finally resolved;
provided, however
          on or prior to September 30, 2009, the Purchaser shall, in respect of each Earn Out Election Share, deliver to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to the former holder thereof (or to such former holder's Transferee) the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount, if any; , that: (i) if the Gross Profit Amount as of the end of any calendar quarter during the period commencing on December 31, 2006 and ending on March 31, 2009 is greater than or equal to the Gross Profit Target, then: (A) the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be deemed to be  500,000,000; and (B) the Purchaser shall make the payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(b) on or prior to the date that is 90 days following the end of such calendar quarter; and (ii) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this clause "(b)," if the Earn Out Representative delivers an Objection Notice and such Objection Notice contains an objection with respect to the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, then the Purchaser shall: (x) make the payment of any undisputed portion of the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount during the time frame set forth above; and (y) make any other payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(b) within five Business Days (or, in the event the Purchaser makes the Stock Payment Election, within 20 days) after the dispute referred to in such Objection Notice is finally resolved;
(b)
provided, however
          on or prior to September 30, 2009, the Purchaser shall, in respect of each Earn Out Election Share, deliver to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to the former holder thereof (or to such former holder's Transferee) the Base User-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount, if any; , that: (i) if the Average User Number as of the end of any calendar quarter during the period commencing on October 1, 2006 and ending on March 31, 2009 is greater than or equal to the Average User Target, then: (A) the Base User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount shall be deemed to be  500,000,000; and (B) the Purchaser shall make the payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(c) on or prior to the date that is 90 days following the end of such calendar quarter; and (ii) notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this clause "(c)," if the Earn Out Representative delivers an Objection Notice and such Objection Notice contains an objection with respect to the Base User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, then the Purchaser shall: (x) make the payment of any undisputed portion of the Base User-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount during the time frame set forth above; and (y) make any other payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(c) within five Business Days (or,
(c)
provided, however
 
in the event the Purchaser makes the Stock Payment Election, within 20 days) after the dispute referred to in such Objection Notice is finally resolved;
          on or prior to March 31, 2009, the Purchaser shall, in respect of each Earn Out Election Share, deliver to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to the former holder thereof (or to such former holder's Transferee) the Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount, if any; , that if the Earn Out Representative delivers an Objection Notice and such Objection Notice contains an objection with respect to the Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, then the Purchaser shall: (x) make the payment of any undisputed portion of the Bonus Revenue-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount during the time frame set forth above; and (y) make any other payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(d) within five Business Days (or, in the event the Purchaser makes the Stock Payment Election, within 20 days) after the dispute referred to in such Objection Notice is finally resolved;
(d)
provided, however
          on or prior to March 31, 2009, the Purchaser shall, in respect of each Earn Out Election Share, deliver to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to the former holder thereof (or to such former holder's Transferee) the Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount, if any; , that if the Earn Out Representative delivers an Objection Notice and such Objection Notice contains an objection with respect to the Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, then the Purchaser shall: (x) make the payment of any undisputed portion of the Bonus Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount during the time frame set forth above; and (y) make any other payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(e) within five Business Days (or, in the event the Purchaser makes the Stock Payment Election, within 20 days) after the dispute referred to in such Objection Notice is finally resolved; and.
(e)
provided, however
          on or prior to March 31, 2009, the Purchaser shall, in respect of each Earn Out Election Share, deliver to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to the former holder thereof (or to such former holder's Transferee) the Bonus User-Based Earn Out Per Share Amount, if any; , that if the Earn Out Representative delivers an Objection Notice and such Objection Notice contains an objection with respect to the Bonus User-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount, then the Purchaser shall: (x) make the payment of any undisputed portion of the Bonus User -Based Earn Out Per Share Amount during the time frame set forth above; and (y) make any other payments required pursuant to this Section 2.1(f) within five Business Days (or, in the event the Purchaser makes the Stock Payment Election, within 20 days) after the dispute referred to in such Objection Notice is finally resolved.
(f)
provided, however
(For illustrative purposes only, sets forth an example of the calculations and payments to be made pursuant to this Section 2.)
Schedule II
     The Purchaser shall notify the Earn Out Representative promptly after the Purchaser becomes aware of the occurrence of any Acceleration Event prior to the end of the Earn Out Period, unless an Intervention Event shall have occurred prior to the occurrence of an Acceleration Event (the date such notice is received by the Earn Out Representative being referred to as the ""). Subject to the final sentence of this Section 2.2 and to Section 2.3, if: (a) an Acceleration Event occurs during the Earn Out Period; and (b) the Earn Out Representative notifies the Purchaser in writing (which
2.2 Acceleration Events.
Acceleration Event Notice Date
 
notice shall be within 30 Business Days following the Acceleration Event Notice Date if the Purchaser delivered a notice of the Acceleration Event to the Earn Out Representative) that the Earn Out Representative, for and on behalf of the Earn Out Sellers, has elected not to waive the Earn Out Sellers' rights and the Purchaser's obligations under this Section 2.2 with respect to such Acceleration Event, then, within 10 Business Days (or, if the Purchaser makes the Stock Payment Election, within 20 days) following receipt of such written notice from the Earn Out Representative, the Purchaser shall, in respect of each Earn Out Election Share, deliver to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to the former holder thereof (or to such former holder's Transferee) the amount determined by dividing the Acceleration Amount by the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares (it being understood that if the Purchaser delivers a notice of the Acceleration Event to the Earn Out Representative and the Earn Out Representative shall not have provided the notice contemplated by this clause "(b)" to the Purchaser within 30 Business Days following the Acceleration Event Notice Date, then the Earn Out Representative shall be deemed to have irrevocably waived the Earn Out Sellers' rights and the Purchaser's obligations under this Section 2.2 with respect to such Acceleration Event). Payment by the Purchaser of the Acceleration Amount to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to each former holder of Earn Out Election Shares (or to such former holder's Transferee) shall constitute a full and final settlement of any and all amounts that may become due pursuant to Section 2.1 or otherwise in connection with this Agreement or any prior or alleged breach thereof (it being understood that upon payment of the Acceleration Amount, the Purchaser shall have no further obligations, and the Earn Out Representative and Earn Out Sellers would have no further rights, under Section 2.1 or with respect to the payment of any Earn Out Amount). The parties expressly agree that: (i) a waiver of an Acceleration Event by the Earn Out Representative shall not constitute a waiver of any claim the Earn Out Sellers may have against the Purchaser (whether such claim is based in contract or tort law or in law or equity) other than the right to receive the Acceleration Amount in respect of the particular Acceleration Event; and (ii) the Acceleration Amount is not intended by the parties to reflect a measure of damages relating to any breach of contract by the Purchaser and the parties intend that such amount shall have no relevance in connection with any dispute under this Agreement other than disputes with respect to payment of the Acceleration Amount.
     At the Purchaser's sole discretion, the Purchaser may elect to issue Purchaser Shares in lieu of paying any portion of any Earn Out Amount or the Acceleration Amount in cash by providing written notice to the Earn Out Representative at least 20 days prior to the date that such payment is due (such election being referred to as a ""). Subject to Section 2.4, if the Purchaser makes a Stock Payment Election with respect to any portion of any Earn Out Amount or the Acceleration Amount, then: (a) the Purchaser shall reduce the amount of cash otherwise payable in respect of each Earn Out Share in connection with the payment of such Earn Out Amount or the Acceleration Amount, as the case may be, pursuant to Section 2.1 or Section 2.2 by subtracting the Per Share Stock Payment Amount (as defined below) therefrom; and (b) the Purchaser shall, in respect of each Earn Out Share, issue to the Earn Out Representative for distribution to the former holder thereof (or such former holder's Transferee) the number of Purchaser Shares determined by dividing: (i) the Per Share Stock Payment Amount; (ii) the average closing sale price of a Purchaser Share as reported on the Purchaser Primary Exchange for the period of 15 consecutive trading days following the date of the Stock Payment Election (translated into Euro at the Exchange Rate as of the date that is 15 days after the date of the Stock Payment Election and adjusted as
2.3 Stock Payment Election.
Stock Payment Election
by
 
appropriate to reflect any stock split, reverse stock split or similar transaction effected by the Purchaser between the beginning of such period and the date such Purchaser Shares are issued). The Purchaser may make the Stock Payment Election only if any Purchaser Shares issued pursuant to this Section 2.3 are registered for resale by the Purchaser as of the date of such issuance or shall otherwise not be subject to restrictions on resale under applicable United States securities laws or otherwise solely as a result of actions taken by or against the Purchaser. For purposes of this Agreement: (A) "" shall mean the portion of any Earn Out Amount or the Acceleration Amount to which a Stock Payment Election applies; and (B) "" shall be the quotient of the Stock Payment Amount divided by the aggregate number of Earn Out Shares.
Stock Payment Amount
Per Share Stock Payment Amount
     No fractional Purchaser Shares shall be issued pursuant to this Agreement, and no certificates or scrip for any such fractional shares shall be issued. Any Seller who would otherwise be entitled to receive a fraction of a Purchaser Share (after aggregating all fractional Purchaser Shares issuable to such Seller) shall, in lieu of such fraction of a share, be paid in cash the amount in Euro (rounded to the nearest whole Euro cent), without interest, determined by multiplying such fraction by the quotient of: (a) the closing price of a Purchaser Share on the Purchaser Primary Exchange on the date of issuance of such Purchaser Shares; (b) the Exchange Rate on such date.
2.4 No Fractional Shares.
divided by
     . The interests of any Earn Out Seller in any Earn Out Amount or in any portion of the Acceleration Amount shall not be assignable or transferable, except: (a) by operation of law; (b) in connection with a Permitted Transfer (as defined below); or (c) following the first anniversary of Completion (the assignee or transferee of any assignment or transfer permitted pursuant to this Section 2.5 being referred to as a ""); that no assignment or transfer of any such interest may occur pursuant to this Section 2.5: (i) unless the Purchaser shall have received from the transferring Earn Out Seller an opinion of counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser that such assignment or transfer will not constitute or result in a violation of applicable securities Laws; (ii) if such assignment or transfer could reasonably be expected to result in any obligation to register any security under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or result in there being more than 400 holders of any security that may be created as a result of this Agreement, prior to the end of the Earn Out Period; and (iii) unless the assignee on transfer signs or delivers to the Purchaser a counterpart to this Agreement agreeing to be bound by all of the terms hereof (it being understood that any attempted assignment or transfer in violation of any part of clause "(i)," clause "(ii)" or clause "(iii)" of this sentence shall be null and void). For purposes of this Section 2.5, "" shall mean any transfer: (A) if an Earn Out Seller is an individual, upon the death of such Earn Out Seller pursuant to any will, trust or similar instrument or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution; or (B) if the Earn Out Seller is a corporation, trust, partnership or limited liability company, to one or more stockholders, beneficiaries, partners or members of such Earn Out Seller.
2.5 Permitted Transfers
Transferee
provided, however,
Permitted Transfer
 
.
3.
Administration of Earn Out Payments
     .
3.1 Preparation and Delivery of Statements
          During the Earn Out Period, on or before the date that is 45 days after the end of the last calendar quarter with respect to which the payment of any Earn Out Amount would reasonably be expected to be due, the Purchaser shall, after consultation with the Chief Executive Officer of the Company: (i) prepare or cause to be prepared a statement (a "") setting forth such Earn Out Amount and the Net Revenue Amount, Gross Profit Amount, Gross Profit Margin and/or Average User Number, as the case may be, underlying such Earn Out Amount (collectively, the ""); and (ii) deliver or cause to be delivered the Statement, together with a summary of the basis for determination of the Results, to the Earn Out Representative who will be deemed to have received the Statement for and on behalf of all of the Earn Out Sellers.
(a)
Statement
Results
          Within 45 days following the end of each calendar quarter during the Earn Out Period, the Purchaser shall after consultation with the Chief Executive Officer of the Company: (i) prepare or cause to be prepared a statement (the "") setting forth the Net Revenues, Gross Profits and the average of the number of Active Users for each of the three months during such calendar quarter, and, commencing on December 31, 2006, the Net Revenue Amount, the Gross Profit Amount and the Average User Number; and (ii) deliver or cause to be delivered the Quarterly Statement, together with a summary of the basis for determination of such amounts, to the Earn Out Representative who will be deemed to have received the Quarterly Statement for and on behalf of all of the Earn Out Sellers. The Quarterly Statements are being provided for information purposes only and shall not estop either party from taking a contrary position with respect to the information contained therein.
(b)
Quarterly Statement
     
3.2 Dispute Resolution.
          In the event that the Earn Out Representative objects to the Results set forth in the Statement, then within 35 days after the delivery to the Earn Out Representative of the Statement (the ""), the Earn Out Representative shall deliver to the Purchaser a written notice (an "") describing in reasonable detail the Earn Out Representative's objections to the Statement and setting forth the Results determined by the Earn Out Representative to be correct. If the Earn Out Representative does not deliver an Objection Notice to the Purchaser during the Response Period, then the Purchaser's calculation of the Results shall be binding and conclusive on the Purchaser, the Earn Out Sellers and the Earn Out Representative.
(a)
Response Period
Objection Notice
     If the Earn Out Representative delivers an Objection Notice objecting to the Results (other than the calculation of the applicable Average User Number) during the Response Period in accordance with Section 3.2(a), and if the Earn Out Representative and the Purchaser are unable to resolve such dispute within 20 days after such Objection Notice is delivered to the Purchaser, then the dispute shall be finally settled by an independent "big four" accounting firm mutually selected by the Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative (it being understood that, if requested by the Earn Out Representative, such independent accounting firm may examine, among other things, the manner in which the Purchaser applied the Specified Accounting Principles to any particular transaction, taking into account all relevant factors (including, to the extent that the independent accounting firm deems it to be appropriate, a comparison of the manner in which the Purchaser applied the Specified Accounting Principles to such transaction to the manner in which companies substantially comparable to the Purchaser
(b) 
 
apply United States generally accepted accounting principles to similar transactions). The determination by the independent accounting firm of: (i) the applicable Earn Out Amount, if any, determined to be correct (the ""); and (ii) the non-prevailing party (as described below), shall be conclusive and binding on the Purchaser, the Earn Out Sellers and the Earn Out Representative. The non-prevailing party in such dispute shall be determined by the independent accounting firm and shall be the party whose calculation of the Earn Out Amount in dispute was furthest from the Actual Earn Out Amount. The Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative shall each bear and pay 50% of the fees and other expenses of the independent accounting firm in connection with the dispute resolution process set forth in this Section 3.2(b); that if the difference between the non-prevailing party's calculation of the Earn Out Amount in dispute and the Actual Earn Out Amount is greater than 5% of the Actual Earn Out Amount, then the non-prevailing party shall be responsible for reimbursing the prevailing party for all of its reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the resolution of the dispute, including all reasonable attorneys' fees, accounting fees and experts' fees, and shall also be responsible for paying all of the costs associated with the dispute resolution process provided for by this Section 3.2(b), including all fees and expenses of the independent accounting firm in connection with the dispute resolution process.
Actual Earn Out Amount
provided, however,
          If the Earn Out Representative delivers an Objection Notice objecting to the applicable Average User Number to the Purchaser during the Response Period in accordance with Section 3.2(a), and if the Earn Out Representative and the Purchaser are unable to resolve such dispute within 20 days after such Objection Notice is delivered to the Purchaser, then either the Earn Out Representative or the Purchaser may notify the other of their intention ("") to submit the dispute for determination by a board of three experts (the "", and each an ""). Each of the Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative shall have the right to appoint one Expert and the two Experts so appointed by them shall select a third Expert, all of whom shall be qualified by education, knowledge and experience in the appropriate field or discipline relating to the substance of the dispute. Each of the Earn Out Representative and the Purchaser shall appoint their respective Expert within 15 Business Days from the date of the Notice of Intent, and give the other the name, position, address, phone number, email address (if any) and experience of its Expert. If either party fails to name its Expert within the said 15 Business Day period, the other party shall name a second Expert. If the two Experts so named shall fail within 10 Business Days after the appointment of the second Expert to agree upon and to select a third Expert (the ""), then either of the Purchaser or the Earn Out Representative may thereafter request the President of the Law Society of England and Wales from time to time to select the Expert to complete the board of three. Should the Third Expert be or become unwilling or unable to act, another shall be selected in the same manner. In the event that either Expert named by the Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative is or becomes unwilling or unable to act, the party selecting that Expert shall select another Expert within a reasonable time of learning of the unwillingness or inability of the original Expert to act. A person selected or appointed as an Expert may not be (a) in the regular salary employ of either of the Purchaser or any of the Earn Out Sellers or Affiliates thereof; (b) a consultant or legal counsel for either the Purchaser or any of the Earn Out Sellers, or (c) a person who has previously voted as an expert or arbitrator against any of the Purchaser or any of the Earn Out Sellers or has represented others in proceedings against one of them. The jurisdiction of the Experts shall be limited to: (a) determining the applicable Average User Number; and (b) determining the non-prevailing party in such dispute. The Claim Dispute shall be decided by a
(c)
Notice of Intent
Experts
Expert
Third Expert
 
majority vote of the Experts within 75 Business Days from the date the Third Expert was appointed. The determination by the Experts of: (a) the applicable Average User Number (the ""); and (b) the non-prevailing party (as described below) shall be conclusive and binding on the Purchaser, the Earn Out Sellers and the Earn Out Representative. The non-prevailing party in such dispute shall be determined by the Experts and shall be the party whose calculation of the Average User Number was furthest from the Actual Average User Number. The Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative shall each bear and pay 50% of the fees and other expenses of the Experts in connection with the dispute resolution process set forth in this Section 3.2(c); that if the difference between the non-prevailing party's calculation of the Average User Number and the Actual Average User Number is greater than 5% of the Actual Average User Number, then the non-prevailing party shall be responsible for reimbursing the prevailing party for all of its reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the resolution of the dispute, including all reasonable attorneys' fees, accounting fees and experts' fees, and shall also be responsible for paying all of the costs associated with the dispute resolution process provided for by this Section 3.2(c), including all fees and expenses of the Experts in connection with the dispute resolution process.
Actual Average User Number
provided, however,
          Except as provided in Sections 3.2(b) and 3.2(c), if the Earn Out Representative or the Purchaser has any other dispute with the other in connection with this Agreement, then either the Earn Out Representative or the Purchaser may submit the dispute to be settled by binding arbitration in London in accordance with the ICC Rules of Arbitration then in effect. Arbitration will be conducted by one arbitrator, mutually selected by the Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative; , that if the Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative fail to mutually select an arbitrator within 15 Business Days after such dispute is submitted to arbitration, then the arbitrator shall be selected by the ICC in accordance with its Rules of Arbitration then in effect. The Earn Out Representative and the Purchaser agree to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the arbitration hearing to be conducted within 75 days after the appointment of the arbitrator, and to use commercially reasonable efforts to cause the decision of the arbitrator to be furnished within 15 days after the conclusion of the arbitration hearing. The determination by the ICC of: (a) the resolution of any such disputes; and (b) the non-prevailing party (as described below) shall be conclusive and binding on the Purchaser, the Earn Out Sellers and the Earn Out Representative. The non-prevailing party in such dispute shall be determined by the ICC. The Purchaser and the Earn Out Representative shall each bear and pay 50% of the fees and other expenses of the ICC in connection with the dispute resolution process set forth in this Section 3.2(d); that if the ICC identifies a prevailing party, then the non-prevailing party shall be responsible for reimbursing the prevailing party for all of its reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the resolution of the dispute, including all reasonable attorneys' fees, accounting fees and experts' fees, and shall also be responsible for paying all of the costs associated with the dispute resolution process provided for by this Section 3.2(d), including all fees and expenses of the ICC in connection with the dispute resolution process.
(d)
provided, however
provided, however,
     
3.3 Access to Necessary Information.
          At reasonable times and during normal business hours, the Company shall permit representatives of the Purchaser and the Purchaser's legal, accounting and financial advisors to have full access to the books, records and personnel of the Company and to make
(a)
 
such inspections and copies of such books and records as they may request, from time to time and for any reason whatsoever.
          At reasonable times during normal business hours and upon reasonable notice provided to the Purchaser, the Purchaser shall permit the Earn Out Representative (who shall have executed a confidentiality agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Purchaser) and his legal, accounting and financial advisors to examine the financial books and records of the Company, to make such inspections and copies of such books and records as they may reasonably require, and to discuss such matters with the appropriate personnel of the Company and the Purchaser, each to the extent incident to the exercise of the Earn Out Representative's right to object to the Purchaser's calculation of the amounts set forth in the Statement. The Earn Out Representative agrees that he shall hold (and shall cause his advisors referred to in the preceding sentence to hold) all information acquired during such examination in strict confidence and shall use (and shall cause his advisors referred to in the preceding sentence to use) such information solely for purposes of making calculations under Section 2 or in connection with any dispute under this Agreement.
(b)
.
4.
Post-Completion Management of the Company
     From Completion until the end of the Earn-Out Period, unless an Intervention Event shall have occurred, the following provisions shall apply:
4.1 Officers of the Company.
          until the employment of Niklas Zennstrm or Janus Friis, as the case may be, with the Company is terminated (through such individual's voluntarily termination, through such individual's involuntarily termination pursuant to this Agreement or due to such individual's death or "Incapability," as such term is defined in such individual's employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company), Niklas Zennstrm shall have the title and customary responsibilities of Chief Executive Officer of the Company and Janus Friis shall have the title and customary responsibilities of Vice President, Strategy of the Company;
(a)
          the President of the Company (and any successor thereto) shall be appointed by a Majority Vote of the Company Board from a list of candidates provided by the Purchaser (it being understood that the President of the Company shall not be appointed without the approval of the Company Directors, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
(b)
          the Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel of the Company (and any successor thereto) shall be mutually agreed upon by the Purchaser and the Company Directors, in each case such agreement not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed;
(c)
          a three-person committee of the Company Board (the "") consisting of the Company Directors and a member of the Company Board designated by the Purchaser shall (acting reasonably and taking into account all relevant factors, including a person's professional experience and general background), appoint the initial members of Senior Management, other than the Chief Executive Officer, the Vice President, Strategy, the President, the Chief Financial Officer and the General Counsel;
(d)
Nominating Committee
 
          the Company's Chief Executive Officer (or if there is no Chief Executive Officer at the time, the Company's most senior officer) shall have the exclusive authority (acting reasonably and taking into account all relevant factors, including a person's professional experience and other qualifications) and after consultation with a Purchaser Director or his or her designee, to appoint all non-Senior Management positions of the Company;
(e)
          the Nominating Committee shall have the exclusive authority, acting reasonably, to determine the terms of employment of each member of Senior Management (which terms may include performance-based incentives), subject in each case to the terms of the Budget approved by the Company Board in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 4.4 and to the terms of such individual's employment contract existing prior to the date of such determination, and provided that: (i) such terms of employment are consistent with the Purchaser's compensation structure; and (ii) the Nominating Committee shall have no authority with respect to any equity-based compensation (whether such equity-based compensation relates to equity of the Purchaser, any Group Company or otherwise) other than with respect to the Plan;
(f)
          subject to Section 4.1(j), the Nominating Committee and the Chief Executive Officer shall have the concurrent authority, acting reasonably, to terminate the employment of any member of Senior Management, other than the Chief Executive Officer, President, General Counsel or Chief Financial Officer of the Company, subject to compliance with the terms of such individual's employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company;
(g)
          the Company Board, by a Majority Vote, shall have the authority to terminate the employment of the Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel of the Company, subject to compliance with the terms of such individual's employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company;
(h)
          subject to Section 4.1(k), the Company Board, by a Supermajority Vote, shall have the authority to terminate the employment of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or the President of the Company, subject to compliance with the terms of such individual's employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company;
(i)
          notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Company Board, by a Majority Vote, shall have the authority to terminate the employment of any member of Senior Management, other than the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the President of the Company, for "Cause" (as such term is defined in such individual's employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company);
(j)
          notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Purchaser Directors shall have the authority to terminate the employment of the Chief Executive Officer for "Cause" (as such term is defined in such individual's employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate of the Company);
(k)
          upon the termination of employment of any member of Senior Management, other than the Chief Executive Officer, President, General Counsel or Chief Financial Officer of the Company, the Nominating Committee shall have the exclusive authority
(l)
 
(acting reasonably and taking into account all relevant factors, including a person's professional experience and general background) and upon consultation with the Purchaser, to appoint a successor thereto;
          in the event the employment of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company terminates (through his voluntarily termination, through his involuntarily termination pursuant to this Agreement or due to his death or Incapability) , any replacement Chief Executive Officer shall not be appointed without the approval of the Purchaser Directors, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; and
(m)
          subject to the other provisions of this Agreement, each member of Senior Management, except for the President of the Company, shall have responsibilities customary for persons with similar positions in similar companies. The President shall have such duties as are determined by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote.
(n)
     From Completion through the end of the Earn Out Period, unless an Intervention Event shall have occurred, subject to the enumerated powers of the Company Board set forth of Section 4.4, the day-to-day management of the Company shall be conducted by the executive officers of the Company in accordance with the Budgets and business plans approved by the Company Board (it being understood that no director of the Company shall sign any contract on behalf of and with the effect of binding the Company, except in their capacity as an officer of the Company); that the Company shall at all times be subject to the Purchaser's policies and procedures relating to corporate governance, internal financial and disclosure controls, internal audit policies, documentation of contracts, compensation and benefits and regulatory and legal compliance. All officers of the Company (other than the President of the Company) shall report to the Company's Chief Executive Officer, as well as, with respect to the Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel, to such officer's functional head in the Purchaser's organization. The President of the Company shall report on a "solid line" basis to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and shall report on "dotted line" basis to the Chief Executive Officer of the Purchaser.
4.2 Management of the Company.
provided, however,
     Immediately following Completion, the Company Board shall consist of the following six individuals: (a) the Chief Executive Officer and the Vice President, Strategy of the Company (each such individual, and any successor thereto designated in accordance with this Section 4.3, being referred to as a ""); (b) the Purchaser's Chief Executive Officer and another individual designated by the Purchaser prior to Completion (each such individual, and any successor thereto designated in accordance with this Section 4.3, being referred to as a ""); (c) the President of the Company; and (d) a Luxembourg resident director (the "") mutually agreed to by the Company Directors and the Purchaser Directors, with each such individual referred to in clauses "(a)" through "(d)" of this sentence being entitled to serve as a director on the Company Board until such individual's resignation, removal, incapacity or death. Prior to the end of the Earn Out Period, unless an Intervention Event has occurred, any vacancy on the Company Board created by the resignation, removal, incapacity or death of a director shall be filled: (i) in the case of the resignation, removal, incapacity or death of a Company Director, by an individual designated by the other Company Director (or in the event no Company Directors are in office, by the Earn Out Representative), which individual: (A) was an Earn Out Seller as
4.3 Composition of the Company Board.
Company Director
Purchaser Director
Luxembourg Director
 
of the Completion Date or an Affiliate of a person who was an Earn Out Seller as of the Completion Date and continues to be an Earn Out Seller; and (B) if as of the time that such vacancy is filled, there remain Earn Out Sellers who are also officers (or other employees at the level of Vice President or higher) of the Company, is an officer or such other employee; (ii) in the case of the resignation, removal, incapacity or death of a Purchaser Director, an individual designated by the Purchaser; (iii) in the case of the resignation, removal, incapacity or death of the President of the Company, by the individual who is appointed as the successor President of the Company in accordance with Section 4.1(b); and (iv) in the case of the resignation, removal, incapacity or death of the Luxembourg Director, by an individual mutually agreed to by the Company Directors and the Purchaser Directors. If an Intervention Event occurs prior to the end of the Earn Out Period, the Purchaser Directors shall be entitled, at any time following the date of such occurrence, to: (A) appoint additional directors to the Company Board to ensure that the Purchaser controls the Company Board; and (B) otherwise take over complete control of the Company in all respects, and the Company Directors shall cooperate with and assist the Purchaser in effecting the changes described in clauses "(A)" and "(B)" of this sentence. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the provisions set forth in Sections 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4(a), 4.4(b), 4.4(c), 4.5 and 4.6 shall terminate and no longer have any force or effect upon the occurrence of an Intervention Event. A Company Director shall resign from the Company Board if and when such Company Director's employment with the Company is terminated; provided that Niklas Zennstrm and Janus Friis each may remain a Company Director even if such person's employment with the Company is terminated, except if such person's employment is terminated for Cause in accordance with this Agreement.
     .
4.4 Board Meetings; Board Approval; Exculpation and Fiduciary Duties
          From Completion until the end of the Earn Out Period, unless an Intervention Event shall have occurred: (i) the Company Board shall hold at least four regularly scheduled meetings per year, of which three shall be held in Luxembourg to the extent determined by the Purchaser to be required to qualify from time to time for any beneficial tax treatment, unless otherwise approved by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote; (ii) at least 20 Business Days prior to each regularly scheduled meeting of the Company Board immediately prior to the beginning of each calendar year during the Earn Out Period, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall provide to each member of the Company Board a proposed annual Budget with respect to such calendar year, and as soon as practicable prior to each other regularly scheduled meeting of the Company Board during each calendar year during the Earn Out Period, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall provide each member of the Company Board with any proposed modifications to any such annual Budget that was previously approved by the Company Board; (iii) the Chief Executive Officer of the Company shall cause a reminder notice of each regularly scheduled meeting of the Company Board to be provided to each director at least five Business Days prior to the meeting, which notice may be waived by each member of the Company Board in attendance at such meeting; provided that each Purchaser Director and each Company Director is present at such meeting; (iv) additional meetings of the Company Board may be held at any time from Completion until the end of the Earn Out Period, by written notice given by any director to the Purchaser, the Earn Out Representative and each of the other directors at least five Business Days prior to the meeting; (v) each written notice of a meeting (including the reminder notice referred to above) shall include an agenda for such meeting, as well as a list of matters to be presented for consideration
(a)
 
by the Company Board at such meeting; and (vi) the Company Board may not approve any matter at a meeting that is not specifically identified on the list of matters to be presented for consideration at such meeting accompanying the notice of such meeting, unless such matter is approved by a Supermajority Vote.
          From Completion until the end of the Earn Out Period, unless an Intervention Event shall have occurred: (i) the overall strategic direction and operations of the Company shall at all times be as contemplated by the Budgets and the business plans approved by the Company Board in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Section 4.4, but otherwise shall be the responsibility of the executive officers of the Company; (ii) a Majority Vote of the Company Board shall be required to review and approve actions customarily approved by a board of directors, including ordinary course business plans and Budgets; (iii) no action shall be taken by the Company Board from Completion until the end of the Earn Out Period without a Required Quorum; and (iv) no action may be taken by the Company Board without a meeting unless all members of the Company Board consent thereto in writing. A "" shall consist of at least three directors, including one Company Director and one Purchaser Director. From Completion until the end of the Earn Out Period, unless an Intervention Event shall have occurred, if the Earn Out Representative or Senior Management has demonstrated to the Purchaser that it is reasonable that either: (i) both the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount and the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount will become payable during the Earn Out Period; or (ii) either the Base Revenue-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount or the Base Gross Profit-Based Earn Out Aggregate Amount will exceed 250,000,000, then the Purchaser shall cause the Purchaser Directors to vote in favor of the approval of every proposed annual Budget and business plan recommended by the Company's Chief Executive Officer and the Company Directors, after consultation with the Company's President, to the Company Board unless: (A) such proposed Budget or business plan relates to any business lines that do not constitute business lines of the Company existing as of the date of this Agreement or that have previously been approved by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote, or extensions thereof that are reasonably related to such existing or previously approved business lines; (B) such proposed Budget or business plan does not reasonably contemplate an EBIT Margin for the fiscal year to which such proposed Budget or business plan relates at least as high as the EBIT Margin set forth in the Company Projections for the same fiscal year, unless an amendment or a deviation from such EBIT Margin has been previously approved by the Company Board by a Supermajority Vote; (C) such proposed Budget or business plan is not otherwise commercially reasonable; or (D) the Company Board approves such proposed Budget or business plan by a Majority Vote notwithstanding the failure of the Purchaser Directors to vote in favor of approval of such proposed Budget or plan.
(b)
Required Quorum
          From Completion until the end of the Earn Out Period, unless an Intervention Event shall have occurred, the vote of both of the Company Directors and both of the Purchaser Directors (a "") shall be required to approve: (i) business plans, Budgets (and any deviations therefrom) and transactions that: (A) contemplate or involve any material deviation from business lines of the Company existing as of the date of this Agreement (or any extensions thereof that are reasonably related to such existing business lines); (B) could reasonably be expected to result in an EBIT Margin for the fiscal year to which such business plan or Budget relates of less than the EBIT Margin for the Group Companies set forth in the Company Projections for the same fiscal year; or (C) are not otherwise commercially reasonable;
(c)
Supermajority Vote
 
(ii) any material contract to which any Group Company is to become a party or by which a Group Company is to become bound that is outside the ordinary course of business; (iii) acquisitions or dispositions of securities, businesses or other assets (whether by way of stock purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by any Group Company, other than acquisitions or dispositions of assets in the ordinary course of business; (iv) transactions: (A) between any Group Company and the Purchaser or any Affiliate of the Purchaser; or (B) between any Group Company; and: (1) any director, any member of Senior Management or any other officer of any Group Company; or (2) any entity with respect to which any person described in clause "(1)" of this sentence is an Affiliate, equity holder, director, principal, manager, employee, consultant, adviser, agent or representative, but excluding under clause "(A)" of this sentence: (x) transactions between or among Group Companies; and (y) immaterial transactions in the ordinary course of business (each such transaction in this clause "(iv)," a ""); (v) the issuance of any securities by any Group Company; (vi) to the extent the Purchaser determines that to qualify from time to time for any beneficial tax treatment, three out of four regularly scheduled meetings of the Company Board must be held in Luxembourg, any change in the requirement set forth in Section 4.4(a) that three out of four of the regularly scheduled meetings of the Company Board be held in Luxembourg; (vii) any matter presented at a meeting of the Company Board that is not specifically identified on the list of matters to be presented for consideration at such meeting accompanying the notice of such meeting; (viii) the termination of employment of the President of the Company or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, in the case of the President of the Company, with or without Cause and in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without Cause; (ix) any liquidation or winding up of any Group Company; (x) the incurrence of indebtedness for borrowed money by any Group Company from a third party; (xi) except as set forth in Section 4.3, any increase or decrease in the number of members of the Company Board; (xii) any amendment to or deviation from the Company Projections; (xiii) the assignment by the Purchaser of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, unless the conditions set forth in Section 5.4 have been satisfied; and (xiv) any amendment to the Articles that adversely impacts the rights and obligations of any party to this Agreement.
Related Party Transaction
          The Earn Out Sellers hereby agree that none of the Purchaser, any Group Company or any of the members of the Company Board shall have any liability (express, implied or otherwise) to any Earn Out Seller or other person for failure of any Group Company to achieve any of the financial results or Average User Numbers required for any Earn Out Amount to become payable to the Earn Out Sellers. Members of the Company Board shall owe their fiduciary duties to the Company and its shareholder and not to any employee, creditor, or other person.
(d)
     From Completion through the end of the Earn Out Period, the Purchaser shall provide, or cause to be provided, to the Company cash in an amount sufficient to meet the external cash needs of the Company as contemplated by annual Budgets approved by the Company Board in accordance with the applicable provision of Section 4.4. The Purchaser may elect to provide any amounts required to be provided to the Company pursuant to this Section 4.5 in the form of a loan or capital contribution; , that if it is provided in the form of a loan, the loan shall be subordinated to all other indebtedness of the Company and to all obligations to the Earn Out Sellers, and no payments in respect of such
4.5 Funding Requirements.
provided, however
 
indebtedness shall be made until the later of the end of the Earn Out Period and payment of all amounts due to the Earn Out Sellers.
     . The parties to this Agreement shall ensure that from Completion through the end of the Earn Out Period, the Articles shall, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, include appropriate provisions implementing, and that are otherwise consistent with, this Section 4 (it being understood that the language included in the Articles to implement Section 4 may differ from the language contained in Section 4 to the extent necessary or appropriate under Luxembourg law).
4.6 Company Articles
     . Prior to Completion, the Purchaser shall, at its election, either cause its Board of Directors to adopt a stock incentive plan that has available for grant exclusively to, or cause its Board of Directors to reserve under one or more of its existing stock incentive plans exclusively for, existing employees, directors and consultants of the Group Companies and new employees, directors and consultants of the Group Companies that are engaged through December 31, 2005 options (which shall not be "incentive stock options" under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended) to purchase the Specified Option Number of Purchaser Shares, as adjusted for any stock split, reverse stock split or similar transaction (such options being referred to herein as the "" and such plan or reserve being referred to herein as the ""); that if the Purchaser, in consultation with Niklas Zennstrm, determines: (a) that the tax and other costs to employees, directors and/or consultants associated with such Incentive Options in certain jurisdictions are substantially higher than the tax and other costs to employees, directors and/or consultants associated with such Incentive Options in the United Kingdom; or (b) not to grant Incentive Options in jurisdictions in which it (or any of its Affiliates) currently has operations but does not grant stock options, then the Purchaser and Niklas Zennstrm shall mutually agree on alternative retention incentives for employees, directors and/or consultants in such jurisdictions (and the total number of Incentive Options shall be appropriately adjusted). Prior to Completion, the Purchaser and Niklas Zennstrm shall mutually agree on the allocation of approximately 50% of the Incentive Options to Senior Management. The Plan, all awards thereunder and all terms applicable thereto shall be administered by the Nominating Committee; , that: (a) unless the Purchaser and Niklas Zennstrm otherwise agree, approximately 50% of the Incentive Options shall be granted to Senior Management as described above; (b) no Incentive Options shall be granted until after Completion; and (c) all Incentive Options shall have terms, including with respect to the exercise prices, performance metrics and vesting schedules thereof, as mutually determined through reasonable consultation between the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Purchaser prior to Completion (it being understood that if the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Purchaser cannot agree on such terms, then such terms shall be consistent with stock options granted to similarly situated employees of the Purchaser). It is further intended that after December 31, 2005, any newly engaged employees, directors and consultants will be granted incentive stock options in accordance with the then-existing policies and procedures of the Purchaser. The Purchaser shall promptly upon the request of the Nominating Committee from time to time take any actions required to implement any awards determined by the Nominating Committee consistent with this Section 4.7.
4.7 Company Stock Incentive Plan
Incentive Options
Plan
provided, however,
provided, however
     . From Completion through the end of the Earn Out Period, the Purchaser covenants that it shall not, and that it shall cause all of its controlled Affiliates not to,
4.8 Noncompetition
 
conduct any business or provide any good or service that directly enables the use of voice or video communications over the Internet, other than through or pursuant to transactions with the Company or one of the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries (it being understood that: (a) the entities identified on are not currently controlled Subsidiaries of the Purchaser; and (b) for the avoidance of doubt, transactions of the type conducted by users of the trading, marketplace and/or payments platforms of the Purchaser and its Affiliates on or through such platforms, including the offering of goods and services by such users, as long as neither the Purchaser nor any of its Affiliates sell such goods on their own behalf or receive revenue from such transactions in excess of their customary types of fees, shall not constitute a breach of this Section 4.8).
Schedule III
     . Each party hereto agrees that, from Completion until the end of the Earn Out Period, it shall, with respect to all matters related to this Agreement, act in good faith and the spirit of fair dealing such that the intent of this Agreement is carried out to the fullest extent practicable.
4.9 Good Faith and Fair Dealing
     . The parties hereto acknowledge that the Purchaser and the Company are considering a restructuring involving one or more of the Group Companies, including a restructuring pursuant to which a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Purchaser ("") would acquire a controlling interest in the Company prior to, at or after Completion and the Company would distribute the shares of the US operating subsidiary of the Company to NewCo (the ""). The parties agree to reasonably cooperate to effect the Restructuring so long as it does not adversely affect any party's rights or obligations hereunder.
4.10 Possible Restructuring
NewCo
Restructuring
5.
Miscellaneous.
     
5.1 Earn Out Representative.
          Subject to Section 5.1(d), as soon as practicable following the date of this Agreement, and in any event prior to Completion, the Key Employees will notify the Purchaser in writing of the identity of the Earn Out Representative (it being understood that until an Earn Out Representative shall be appointed, Niklas Zennstrm shall serve as the Earn Out Representative).
(a)
          Promptly upon appointment, the appointed Earn Out Representative shall enter into a Deed of Adherence.
(b)
          Each Earn Out Seller hereby irrevocably confirms that such Earn Out Seller shall be bound by any steps or actions taken or agreement entered into by the Earn Out Representative (or such other person appointed for the time being pursuant to this Section 5.1(c) acting as the Earn Out Representative on the terms of this Agreement), provided that the written consent of each Earn Out Seller affected thereby shall be required in order to approve any amendment or variation to the terms of this Agreement that involves either (i) a reduction in the amount or a variation in the form of the consideration receivable by any Earn Out Seller hereunder, or (ii) an increase in the scope and/or quantum of the liability of any Earn Out Seller hereunder.
(c)
          If:
(d)
 
     Earn Out Sellers who held 66 2/3 per cent or more of the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares immediately prior to Completion so direct in writing; or
(i)
     for any reason, the then current Earn Out Representative shall not be able to act as the Earn Out Representative and Earn Out Sellers who held 50 per cent or more of the aggregate number of Earn Out Election Shares immediately prior to Completion nominate in writing another person to fill the role of Earn Out Representative hereunder,
(ii)
such other person as shall be so notified in writing to the Purchaser by such Earn Out Sellers shall be the Earn Out Representative in substitution for the then current Earn Out Representative from time to time; , that the Earn Out Representative shall be the same person as the Sellers' Representative and shall not be a member of Senior Management (except prior to Completion as described in Section 5.1(a)).
provided, however
          The Earn Out Sellers shall severally indemnify and hold harmless the Earn Out Representative from and against any costs, expenses, losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) related to or arising out of the performance of his function as Earn Out Representative, save for any such costs, expenses, losses, claims, damages or liabilities that result from the fraud or dishonesty of the Earn Out Representative. The Earn Out Representative shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect, in contract or tort or otherwise) to any Earn Out Seller or any other party to this Agreement in connection with the performance of his function as Earn Out Representative except for liability for any costs, expenses, losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses that are incurred by any Earn Out Seller as a result of the fraud or dishonesty of the Earn Out Representative.
(e)
          Each Earn Out Seller agrees and undertakes to co-operate fully and set in good faith in relation to any request or attempt from or by the Earn Out Representative to consult or otherwise communicate with such Earn Out Seller.
(f)
          The Earn Out Representative: (a) shall have no rights under or with respect to this Agreement, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement or the Purchase Agreement; and (b) shall not be involved in the management or operations of the Company.
(g)
     . This Agreement shall terminate and shall cease to have any further force or effect upon the valid termination of the Purchase Agreement in accordance with Section 20 of the Purchase Agreement; that Section 5 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
5.2 Termination
provided, however,
     Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, no delay or omission by any party to this Agreement in exercising any right, power or remedy provided by Law or under this Agreement or any other documents referred to in it shall: (a) affect that right, power or remedy; or (b) operate as a waiver thereof. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the single or partial exercise of any right, power or remedy provided by Law or under this Agreement shall not preclude any other or further exercise of it or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. Except as otherwise expressly
5.3 Remedies and Waivers.
 
provided in this Agreement, the rights, powers and remedies provided in this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, powers and remedies provided by Law.
     The Purchaser may assign its rights, in whole or in part, and/or delegate its obligations, in whole or in part, under this Agreement only: (a) with the prior written consent of the Earn Out Representative, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; (b) to an Affiliate of the Purchaser as long as the Purchaser remains liable for any breach of this Agreement by such Affiliate; or (c) in connection with a Sale, provided that: (i) the buyer in the Sale unconditionally assumes all obligations of the Purchaser under this Agreement; and (ii) the buyer in the Sale is either approved by the Earn Out Representative, in his sole and absolute discretion, or the buyer (together with all of its Affiliates, including the Group Companies), has a market capitalization or shareholders' equity (or in the event that the buyer is a private equity buyer, assets under management) of not less than 5 billion. Any delegation by the Purchaser of its obligations under this Agreement in accordance with clause "(a)" or clause "(c)" of the immediately preceding sentence shall constitute a novation of this Agreement and the Purchaser shall no longer have any obligations under this Agreement to the extent of such delegation; provided that such novation shall not relieve the Purchaser of any obligation to pay any Acceleration Amount triggered by such action of the Purchaser under clause "(a)" or "(c)," as the case may be.
5.4 Assignment.
     This Agreement, the Purchase Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Disclosure Letter, the Non-Competition Agreements, the Shareholder Certification and Agreement (for Non-US Investors), the Shareholder Certification and Agreement (for US Investors) and the other agreements referred to herein constitute the whole and only agreement among the parties relating to the sale and purchase of the Sale Shares and the other matters provided for herein. In entering into this Agreement, each party acknowledges that it is not relying upon any pre-contractual statement that is not expressly set out herein. Except in the case of fraud or dishonesty, no party shall have any right of action against any other party to this Agreement arising out of or in connection with any pre-contractual statement except to the extent that it is repeated. For the purposes of this Section 5.5, "" means any draft, agreement, undertaking, representation, warranty, promise, assurance or arrangement of any nature whatsoever, whether or not in writing, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement made or given by any person at any time prior to the date of this Agreement. This Agreement may only be varied in writing signed by or on behalf of the Purchaser, the Company and the Earn Out Representative, subject to the provisions of Section 5.1.
5.5 Entire Agreement.
pre-contractual statement
     Clause 16 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby incorporated by reference into this Agreement.
5.6 Notices.
     This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, and by the parties to it on separate counterparts, but shall not be effective until each party has executed at least one counterpart. Each counterpart shall constitute an original of this Agreement, but all the counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
5.7 Counterparts.
     . Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the parties to this Agreement do not intend that any term of this Agreement should be enforceable, by virtue of the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999,
5.8 Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999
 
by any person who is not a party to (or an assignee of a party to) this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any benefits conferred by this Agreement on any third party by virtue of such statute, the parties to this Agreement may agree to vary or rescind this Agreement without any such third party's consent.
     . If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, then such provision shall (so far as it is invalid or unenforceable) be given no effect and shall be deemed not to be included in this Agreement but without invalidating any of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
5.9 Severability
     . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English law.
5.10 Choice of Governing Law
     Except as set forth in Section 3.2, and except with respect to disputes regarding the occurrence of an Intervention Event or an Acceleration Event (which shall be submitted for resolution in accordance with Section 6 of Schedule 9 to the Purchase Agreement as if such dispute were a Claim Dispute), the courts of England are to have exclusive jurisdiction to settle any dispute arising out of or in connection with this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement shall preclude any party from seeking interim relief in any court of competent jurisdiction. Each party waives (and agrees not to raise) any objection, on the ground of or on any other ground, to the jurisdiction of the English courts. Each party also agrees that a judgment against it in Proceedings brought in England shall be conclusive and binding upon it and may be enforced in any other jurisdiction. Each party irrevocably submits and agrees to submit to the jurisdiction of the English courts.
5.11 Jurisdiction.
forum non conveniens
     .
5.12 Interpretation
          For purposes of this Agreement, whenever the context requires: the singular number shall include the plural, and vice versa; the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders; the feminine gender shall include the masculine and neuter genders; and the neuter gender shall include the masculine and feminine genders.
(a)
          The parties hereto agree that any rule of construction to the effect that ambiguities are to be resolved against the drafting party shall not be applied in the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
(b)
          As used in this Agreement, the words "include" and "including," and variations thereof, shall not be deemed to be terms of limitation, but rather shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."
(c)
          Except as otherwise indicated, all references in this Agreement to "Sections" and "Exhibits" are intended to refer to Sections of this Agreement and Exhibits to this Agreement.
(d)
 
     , the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed and delivered as of the date first set forth above.
In witness whereof
 
     , the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed and delivered as of the date first set forth above.
In witness whereof
List of Schedules:
* Omitted pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K. eBay Inc. agrees to supplementally furnish a copy of any omitted attachment to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
      (this "") is being entered into as of September 11, 2005, by and among , a Delaware corporation (the ""), and the persons listed on Schedule 1 hereto (the ""). The Investors and the Purchaser are sometimes referred to in this Agreement individually as a "" and collectively as the "." Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in .
This Registration Rights Agreement
Agreement
eBay Inc.
Purchaser
Investors
Party
Parties
Exhibit A
     , pursuant to that certain Sale and Purchase Agreement of even date (the "Purchase Agreement"), among the Purchaser, Skype Technologies S.A. and the Investors, the Purchaser is issuing shares of its common stock to the Investors; and
Whereas
     in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, the Purchaser has agreed to register, under the Securities Act, the resale of the Registrable Shares and to grant certain other rights to the Investors.
Whereas
,
     The Parties, intending to be legally bound, agree as follows:
     
1.
Registration of the Registrable Shares; Compliance With the Securities Act
.
          . The Purchaser shall:
1.1. Registration Procedures
               (a) prepare and file with the SEC, on or prior to the later of December 15, 2005 or the date on which any historical and pro forma financial statements required to be filed by the Purchaser with the SEC in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement have been filed with the SEC (but in no event later than 75 days following Completion, as defined in the Purchase Agreement), a shelf registration statement (the "") on Form S-3 or other available forms to enable the resale of the Registrable Shares by the Investors from time to time on a delayed or continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act through the automated quotation system of the Nasdaq National Market or such other market as may be the principal market on which the Purchaser Common Stock is quoted or listed, or in any other manner reasonably requested by the Investors;
Registration Statement
               (b) use all reasonable efforts to cause the Registration Statement to become effective as soon as practicable after the Registration Statement is filed by the Purchaser;
               (c) to the extent applicable, use all reasonable efforts to prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and supplements to the Registration Statement and the prospectus forming part thereof (the "") as may be necessary to keep the Registration Statement current and effective until the earlier of: (i) two years following the date on which the Registration Statement first becomes effective; or (ii) the date on which all of the Registrable Shares may be sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act ("") without regard to any volume limitations;
Prospectus
Rule 144
               (d) take such reasonable action as may be necessary so that: (i) the Registration Statement and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto (and each report or other
 
document incorporated therein by reference) comply in all material respects with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act; (ii) the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto do not, when they become effective, contain an untrue statement (as defined below) of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; and (iii) the Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement to the Prospectus, does not, as of its date, include an untrue statement (as defined below) of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
               (e) furnish to the Investors such number of copies of the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, preliminary prospectuses, prospectus supplements or periodic or current reports incorporated into such Registration Statement identifying the Investors as selling stockholders (an ""), as applicable in conformity with the requirements of the Securities Act and such other documents as the Investors may reasonably request, in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of all or any of the Registrable Shares by the Investors;
Identifying Report
               (f) take all reasonable actions necessary to ensure that the Registrable Shares are listed and available for quotation on The Nasdaq National Market or such other market as may be the principal market on which the Purchaser Common Stock is quoted or listed;
               (g) to the extent necessary to properly sell any Registrable Shares under the Registration Statement, deliver to each Investor, without charge, as many copies of the Prospectus (including each prospectus subject to completion) and any amendments or supplements thereto as such Investor may reasonably request in order to permit the offering and sale of the Registrable Shares, but only while the Purchaser shall be required under the provisions hereof to cause the Registration Statement to remain effective, and the Purchaser consents (except during a suspension period permitted by this Agreement) to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by the Investor in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Shares covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto in accordance with the terms hereof;
               (h) prior to any offering of Registrable Shares pursuant to the Registration Statement, use all reasonable efforts to register or qualify or cooperate with the Investors and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification of such Registrable Shares for offer and sale under the securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions in the United States as any Investor reasonably requests in writing and to keep such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be kept effective and to do all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such distributions of the securities covered by the Registration Statement; , , that the Purchaser will not be required to: (i) qualify to do business in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify, but for this paragraph (h); (ii) subject itself to general taxation in any such jurisdiction; or (iii) file a general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction;
provided
however
               (i) comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC relating to such registration and the distribution of the securities being offered pursuant to the Registration Statement and, to the extent applicable, make generally available to its securities holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, earnings statements satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act;
               (j) use all reasonable efforts to cause all Registrable Shares covered by the Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such Governmental Entities as may be
 
necessary in the written opinion of counsel to the Purchaser and counsel to an Investor to enable the Investor to consummate the disposition of such Registrable Shares;
               (k) cooperate with each Investor to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Shares sold pursuant to the Registration Statement, and provide the transfer agent with certificates for such Registrable Shares that are in a form that does not contain any restrictive legend;
               (l) notify the Investors promptly after it shall receive notice or obtain knowledge of the issuance of any stop order by the SEC delaying or suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of the initiation or threat of any proceeding for that purpose and promptly use all reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order or to obtain its withdrawal if such stop order should be issued; and
               (m) bear all expenses (exclusive of underwriting discounts and commissions and fees and expenses of counsel to any Investor) in connection with the procedures in paragraph (a) through (l) of this Section 1.1 and the registration of the Registrable Shares pursuant to the Registration Statement; and
               (n) use all reasonable efforts to take all other reasonable steps necessary to effect the resale of the Registrable Shares.
          .
1.2. Investor Obligations
               (a) In connection with the Registration Statement referred to in Section 1.1, each Investor shall: (i) furnish such information as the Purchaser may reasonably request in connection with the preparation of the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, any prospectus supplement or Identifying Report in order to permit the Purchaser to comply with all applicable securities laws and requirements of the SEC; and (ii) complete, execute, acknowledge and/or deliver such questionnaires and other documents, certificates and instruments as are reasonably required by the Purchaser in connection with any offering under this Agreement.
               (b) Each Investor shall promptly notify the Purchaser of any changes known to such Investor in the information set forth in the Registration Statement and the Prospectus, any prospectus supplement or Identifying Report regarding such Investor or its plan of distribution. No Investor shall use, distribute or otherwise disseminate any free writing prospectus, as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, in connection with the sale of Registrable Shares under the Registration Statement, without the prior written consent of the Purchaser.
               (c) Upon receipt of any Suspension Notice (as defined below), each Investor shall immediately discontinue disposition of the Registerable Shares pursuant to the Registration Statement covering such shares until the Investor receives copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus contemplated by Section 1.3(c) or until the Investor is advised in writing by the Purchaser that the Suspension (as defined below) is no longer in effect, and, if so directed by the Purchaser, deliver to the Purchaser all copies of the Prospectus and any prospectus supplement or Identifying Report covering such Registerable Shares in such Investor's possession at the time of receipt of such notice.
 
          .
1.3. Amendments to Registration Statement; Suspension; Sales of Registrable Shares under the Registration Statement
               (a) Except in the event that Section 1.3(b) or 1.3(c) applies, the Purchaser shall: (i) if required under applicable law, prepare and file from time to time with the SEC a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement or amendment to the Prospectus or any prospectus supplement or a supplement or amendment to any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required report or document so that neither such Registration Statement nor prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will contain an untrue statement (as defined below) of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) provide the Investors with copies of any documents filed pursuant to this Section 1.3(a); and (iii) inform the Investors that the Purchaser has complied with its obligations in this Section 1.3(a) (or that, if the Purchaser has filed a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement which has not yet become or been declared effective, the Purchaser will notify the Investors to that effect, will use all reasonable efforts to secure the effectiveness of such post-effective amendment as promptly as practicable and will promptly notify the Investors pursuant to this Section 1.3(a) when the amendment has become effective).
               (b) The Purchaser shall not be obligated to effect a registration pursuant to Section 1.1, or to file any amendment to the Registration Statement (or any report incorporated therein) or any or supplement or amendment to the Prospectus or any prospectus supplement, and may suspend the Investors' rights to make sales pursuant to an effective registration pursuant to Section 1.1, at any time when the Purchaser, in the good faith judgment of its Board of Directors, reasonably believes that the filing thereof, or the offering of securities pursuant thereto, would: (i) materially and adversely affect a pending or proposed acquisition, merger, recapitalization, consolidation, reorganization or similar transaction, or negotiations, discussions or pending proposals related thereto; or (ii) be seriously detrimental to the Purchaser and its stockholders, in which event (under clause (i) or (ii) above) the Purchaser shall have the right to defer filing of a registration statement and prospectus or prospectus supplement or Identifying Report (or to suspend the Investors' rights to make sales pursuant to an effective registration pursuant to Section 1.1) for a period of not more than 30 days; , that the Purchaser shall not utilize the right described in this Section 1.3(b) on more than two occasions of not more than sixty days in any twelve month period.
provided, however
               (c) In the event: (i) of any request by the SEC or any other federal or state governmental authority during the period of effectiveness of the Registration Statement for amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement or prospectus or for additional information; (ii) of the issuance by the SEC or any other federal or state governmental authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose; (iii) of the receipt by the Purchaser of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Shares for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; (iv) of any event or circumstance which, upon the advice of Purchaser's counsel, necessitates the making of any changes in the Registration Statement, prospectus or any prospectus supplement, or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, so that neither the Registration Statement nor the Prospectus or, if applicable, prospectus supplement will contain any untrue statement (as defined below) of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or (v) of any event or circumstance of the type described in Section 1.3(b), then the Purchaser shall promptly deliver a certificate in writing to the Investors (the "") to the effect of the foregoing and, upon receipt of such Suspension Notice, each Investor will refrain from selling any Registrable Shares
Suspension Notice
 
pursuant to the Registration Statement (a "") until such Investor's receipt of copies of a supplemented or amended prospectus prepared and filed by the Purchaser, or until it is advised in writing by the Purchaser that the Suspension is no longer in effect.
Suspension
               (d) Provided that a Suspension is not then in effect, each Investor may sell the Registrable Shares under the Registration Statement as long as, to the extent required by law, it arranges for delivery of a current prospectus and, if applicable, prospectus supplement or report, to the transferee of such Registrable Shares.
               (e) In the event of a sale of any Registrable Shares by an Investor pursuant to the Registration Statement, such Investor shall deliver to the Purchaser's transfer agent, with a copy to the Purchaser, a Certificate of Subsequent Sale substantially in the form attached hereto as so that the Registrable Shares may be properly transferred. Assuming timely delivery to the Purchaser's transfer agent of one or more stock certificates representing the Registrable Shares in proper form for transfer and assuming compliance by the Investor with the terms of this Agreement, the Purchaser's transfer agent will issue and make appropriate delivery of one or more stock certificates in the name of the buyer so as to permit timely compliance by the Investor with applicable settlement requirements.
Exhibit B
          . Any rights referred to in Section 1 may be assigned (but only with all related obligations) by an Investor to an affiliate of such Investor, provided that: (a) the Purchaser is, within a reasonable time prior to such assignment, furnished with written notice of the name and address of such assignee and the securities with respect to which such registration rights are being assigned; and (b) such assignee agrees in writing to be bound by and subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
1.4. Assignment of Registration Rights
          .
1.5. Indemnification
               (a) For the purpose of this Section 1.5: (i) the term "" shall include each Investor and each Person, if any, who controls such Investor within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, including any officer, director, employee, trustee or affiliate of such Investor; (ii) the term "" shall include any final prospectus, exhibit, supplement or amendment included in or relating to the Registration Statement; and (iii) the term "" shall include any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any omission or alleged omission to state in the Registration Statement a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Selling Stockholder
Registration Statement
untrue statement
               (b) The Purchaser shall indemnify and hold harmless each Selling Stockholder from and against any losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses to which such Selling Stockholders may become subject (under the Securities Act or otherwise) insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses (or actions or proceedings in respect thereof) arise out of, or are based upon: (i) any untrue statement; (ii) any failure by the Purchaser to fulfill any undertaking included in the Registration Statement; or (iii) any violation by the Purchaser of any law, rule or regulation, and the Purchaser shall reimburse such Selling Stockholders for any reasonable legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in investigating, defending or preparing to defend any such action, proceeding or claim; , that the Purchaser shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of, or is based upon, an untrue statement made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Purchaser by or on behalf of any Selling Stockholder specifically for use in preparation of the Registration Statement or the failure of the Selling
provided, however
 
Stockholder to comply with its covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement respecting the sale of the Registrable Shares.
               (c) Each Investor shall indemnify and hold harmless the Purchaser (and each person, if any, who controls the Purchaser within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act, each officer of the Purchaser who signs the Registration Statement and each director of the Purchaser) from and against any losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses to which the Purchaser (or any such officer, director or controlling person) may become subject (under the Securities Act or otherwise), insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses (or actions or proceedings in respect thereof) arise out of, or are based upon: (i) any failure by such Investor to comply with the covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement respecting the sale of the Registrable Shares; or (ii) any untrue statement if such untrue statement was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished by or on behalf of such Investor specifically for use in preparation of the Registration Statement, and such Investor shall reimburse the Purchaser (or such officer, director or controlling person), as the case may be, for any reasonable legal or other expenses reasonably incurred in investigating, defending or preparing to defend any such action, proceeding or claim, to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement is contained in any written information furnished to the Purchaser by or on behalf of any Selling Stockholder specifically for inclusion in the Registration Statement; , that such Investor's obligation to indemnify the Purchaser shall be limited to the net proceeds received by such Investor from the sale of the Registrable Shares.
provided, however
               (d) Promptly after receipt by any indemnified person of a notice of a claim or the beginning of any action or proceeding in respect of which indemnity is to be sought against an indemnifying person pursuant to this Section 1.5, such indemnified person shall notify the indemnifying person in writing of such claim or of the commencement of such action or proceeding, but the failure to so notify the indemnifying person will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified person under this Section 1.5 (except to the extent that such failure affects the indemnifying person's ability to defend such action or proceeding) or from any liability otherwise than under this Section 1.5. Subject to the provisions hereinafter stated, in case any such action or proceeding shall be brought against an indemnified person, the indemnifying person shall be entitled to participate therein, and, to the extent that it shall elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified person promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified person, shall be entitled to assume the defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified person. After notice from the indemnifying person to such indemnified person of its election to assume the defense thereof (but only for so long as such indemnifying person is pursuing such defense in a reasonable manner), such indemnifying person shall not be liable to such indemnified person for any legal expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified person in connection with the defense thereof; , that if there exists a conflict of interest that would make it inappropriate, in the opinion of counsel to the indemnified person, for the same counsel to represent both the indemnified person and such indemnifying person or any affiliate or associate thereof, the indemnified person shall be entitled to retain its own counsel at the expense of such indemnifying person; that no indemnifying person shall be responsible for the fees and expenses of more than one separate counsel (together with appropriate local counsel) for all indemnified persons. In no event shall any indemnifying person be liable in respect of any amounts paid in settlement of any action or proceeding unless the indemnifying person shall have approved the terms of such settlement; , that such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. No indemnifying person shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified person, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened claim, action or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified person is or could have been a party and indemnification could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified person, unless such settlement
provided, however
provided, however,
provided, however
 
includes an unconditional release of such indemnified person from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such claim, action or proceeding.
               (e) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 1.5 is unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified person under Sections 1.5(b) or 1.5(c) in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions or proceedings in respect thereof) referred to therein, then each indemnifying person shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified person as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions or proceedings in respect thereof) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Purchaser on the one hand and the Investor, on the other, in connection with the statements or omissions or other matters which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions or proceedings in respect thereof), as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, in the case of an untrue statement, whether the untrue statement relates to information supplied by the Purchaser on the one hand or an Investor or other Selling Stockholder on the other and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement. The Purchaser and each Investor agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 1.5(e) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Investor and other Selling Stockholders were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 1.5(e). Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 1.5(e), no Investor shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the net proceeds received by such Investor from the sale of the Registrable Shares to which such loss, claim, damage or liability relates exceeds the amount of any damages which such Investor has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue statement. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
      . The Purchaser shall use all reasonable efforts to file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC hereunder, all from time to time to enable each Investor to sell the Registrable Shares owned by it without registration under the Securities Act pursuant to the exemption provided by Rule 144, as such Rule may be amended from time to time (or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC).
2.
Rule 144
     
3.
Miscellaneous
          . A notice under this Agreement shall only be effective if it is in writing. Faxes are permitted. Notices under this Agreement shall be sent to the addresses set forth below, provided that the Purchaser may change its notice details on giving notice to the Investors (and any Investor may change its notice details on giving notice to the Purchaser) of the change in accordance with this clause (which notice shall only be effective on the day following five clear Business Days after the notification has been received or such later date as may be specified in the notice). Any notice given under this Agreement shall, in the absence of earlier receipt, be deemed to have been duly given as follows: (a) if delivered personally, on delivery; (b) if sent by first class post, two clear Business Days after the date of posting; and (c) if sent by facsimile, when despatched. Any notice given under this Agreement outside Working Hours in the place to which it is addressed shall be deemed not to have been given until the start of the next period of Working Hours in such place.
3.1. Notices
if to the Purchaser, to the address for notices to the Purchaser under the Purchase Agreement.
 
if to an Investor, to the address for notices to such Investor under the Purchase Agreement.
          .
3.2. Governing Law; Venue
               (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with, and governed in all respects by, the laws of the State of Delaware (without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law).
               (b) Any legal proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of any provision of this Agreement shall be brought or otherwise commenced in any state or federal court located in the County of Santa Clara, State of California. Each Party:
     (i) expressly and irrevocably consents and submits to the jurisdiction of each state and federal court located in the County of Santa Clara, State of California (and each appellate court located in the State of California) in connection with any such legal proceeding;
     (ii) agrees that each state and federal court located in the County of Santa Clara, State of California shall be deemed to be a convenient forum; and
     (iii) agrees not to assert (by way of motion, as a defense or otherwise), in any such legal proceeding commenced in any state or federal court located in the County of Santa Clara, State of California, any claim that such Party is not subject personally to the jurisdiction of such court, that such legal proceeding has been brought in an inconvenient forum, that the venue of such legal proceeding is improper or that this Agreement or the subject matter of this Agreement may not be enforced in or by such court.
          . Subject to Section 1.4: (a) the Purchaser may not assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement (whether voluntarily, involuntarily, by way of merger or otherwise) to any other Person without the prior written consent of Investors holding at least a majority of the Registrable Shares at the time of such requested assignment or delegation; (b) except as set forth in Section 1.4, no Investor may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement (whether voluntarily, involuntarily, by way of merger or otherwise) to any other Person without the prior written consent of the Purchaser.
3.3. Successors and Assigns
          . None of the provisions of this Agreement is intended to provide any rights or remedies to any Person other than the Parties and their respective successors and assigns (if any) and, with respect to Section 1.5, the indemnified persons described therein.
3.4. Parties in Interest
          . In the event that any provision of this Agreement, or the application of any such provision to any Person or set of circumstances, shall be determined to be invalid, unlawful, void or unenforceable to any extent, the remainder of this Agreement, and the application of such provision to Persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is determined to be invalid, unlawful, void or unenforceable, shall not be impaired or otherwise affected and shall continue to be valid and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.
3.5. Severability
          . This Agreement and the other agreements referred to herein constitute the whole and only agreement among the Parties relating to the matters provided for herein. In
3.6. Entire Agreement
 
entering into this Agreement, the Parties acknowledge that they are not relying upon any pre-contractual statement that is not expressly set out herein.
          . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, no delay or omission by any Party in exercising any right, power or remedy provided by law or under this Agreement or any other documents referred to in it shall: (a) affect that right, power or remedy; or (b) operate as a waiver thereof. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, the single or partial exercise of any right, power or remedy provided by law or under this Agreement shall not preclude any other or further exercise of it or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy.
3.7. Waiver
          . This Agreement may not be amended, modified, altered or supplemented other than by means of a written instrument duly executed and delivered by the Purchaser and Investors holding at least a majority of the Registrable Shares at the time of the amendment, modification, alteration or supplement (it being understood that upon such execution and delivery, such amendment, modification, alteration or supplement shall be binding on all Investors).
3.8. Amendments
          . This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one agreement. The delivery of this Agreement by facsimile or by electronic delivery in Portable Document Format ("pdf") format shall be sufficient to bind each Party to the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
3.9. Counterparts and Exchanges by Electronic Transmission or Facsimile
          . This Agreement shall become effective upon the consummation of the share purchase contemplated by the Purchase Agreement (it being understood that if the Purchase Agreement is terminated, this Agreement shall have no further force or effect).
3.10. Effective Date
          .
3.11. Construction
               (a) For purposes of this Agreement, whenever the context requires: the singular number shall include the plural, and vice versa; the masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter genders; the feminine gender shall include the masculine and neuter genders; and the neuter gender shall include the masculine and feminine genders.
               (b) As used in this Agreement, the words "include" and "including," and variations thereof, shall not be deemed to be terms of limitation, but rather shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation."
               (c) Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Agreement to "Sections," "Schedules" and "Exhibits" are intended to refer to Sections of and Schedules and Exhibits to this Agreement.
               (d) The bold-faced headings of the various sections of this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to be part of this Agreement.
 
     , the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed and delivered as of September 11, 2005.
In Witness Whereof
 
     The Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed as of September 11, 2005.
 
     "" means a day (other than a Saturday or a Sunday) on which banks are open for business in London and Luxembourg.
Business Day
     "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder, as the same are in effect from time to time.
Exchange Act
     "" means any individual, firm, corporation, trust, company, government, state or agency of a state or any joint venture, association or partnership (whether or not having separate legal personality).
Person
     "" means the common stock of the Purchaser, $0.001 par value per share.
Purchaser Common Stock
     "" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder, as the same are in effect from time to time.
Securities Act
     "" means the shares of Purchaser Common Stock being issued to the Investors pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, together with any other securities of the Purchaser issued or issuable as a result of or in connection with any stock dividend, stock split, or reverse stock split, reclassification, merger, consolidation, or similar transaction in respect of such shares; , that: Registrable Shares shall cease to be Registrable Shares when: (i) a registration statement covering such Registrable Shares shall have become effective under the Securities Act, and such Registrable Shares shall have been disposed of in accordance with the Registration Statement; or (ii) one year after the date of this Agreement.
Registrable Shares
provided, however
     "" means 9.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on a Business Day.
Working Hours
 
Dear Sir/Madam:
     The undersigned hereby certifies, in connection with the sale of shares of Common Stock of the Purchaser included in the table of Selling Stockholders in the Prospectus, that the undersigned has sold the shares pursuant to the Prospectus and in a manner described under the caption "Plan of Distribution" in the Prospectus and that such sale complies with all securities laws applicable to the undersigned, including, without limitation, the Prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Selling Stockholder (the beneficial owner):
                    
                    
                    
                    
Record Holder (e.g., if held in name of nominee):
                    
                    
                    
                    
Restricted Stock Certificate No.(s):
                    
                    
                    
                    
Number of Shares Sold:
                    
                    
                    
                    
Date of Sale:
                    
                    
                    
                    
     In the event that you receive a stock certificate(s) representing more shares of Common Stock than have been sold by the undersigned, then you should return to the undersigned a newly issued certificate for such excess shares in the name of the Record Holder.

 
Exhibit 99.1
London, September 12, 2005  eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY; www.ebay.com) has agreed to acquire Luxembourg-based Skype Technologies SA, the global Internet communications company, for approximately $2.6 billion in up-front cash and eBay stock, plus potential performance-based consideration. The acquisition will strengthen eBay's global marketplace and payments platform, while opening several new lines of business and creating significant new monetization opportunities for the company. The deal also represents a major opportunity for Skype to advance its leadership in Internet voice communications and offer people worldwide new ways to communicate in a global online era. Skype, eBay and PayPal will create an unparalleled ecommerce and communications engine for buyers and sellers around the world.
"Communications is at the heart of ecommerce and community," said Meg Whitman, President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay. "By combining the two leading ecommerce franchises, eBay and PayPal, with the leader in Internet voice communications, we will create an extraordinarily powerful environment for business on the Net."
Founded in 2002 by Niklas Zennstrm and Janus Friis, Skype offers high-quality voice communications to anyone with an Internet connection anywhere in the world. The Skype software is easy to download and install, and enables free calls between Skype users online. Skype's premium services provide low-cost connectivity to traditional fixed and mobile telephones. Skype's software also offers a robust set of features, including voicemail, instant messaging, call forwarding and conference calling. Upcoming product innovations include Skype video, expressive content such as avatars, and customized toolbars for Outlook and Internet Explorer.
One of the fastest growing companies on the Internet, Skype already has 54 million members in 225 countries and territories. Skype is currently adding approximately 150,000 users a day and has created a thriving ecosystem of products, services, developers, and affiliates. Skype is considered the market leader in virtually all countries in which it does business. In North America alone, Skype has more users and serves more voice minutes than any other Internet voice communications provider.
"Our vision for Skype has always been to build the world's largest communications business and revolutionize the ease with which people can communicate through the Internet," said Niklas Zennstrm, Skype CEO and co-founder. "We can't think of any better platform to fulfill this vision to become the voice of the Internet than with eBay and PayPal."
"We're great admirers of how eBay and PayPal have simplified global ecommerce and payments," said Janus Friis, Skype co-founder and senior vice president, strategy. "Together we feel we can really change the way that people communicate, shop and do business online."
Zennstrm and Friis will remain in their current positions. Zennstrm will report to eBay CEO Whitman and join eBay's senior executive team.
A Powerful Ecommerce and Communications Engine
Online shopping depends on a number of factors to function well. Communications, like payments and shipping, is a critical part of this process. Skype will streamline and improve communications between buyers and sellers as it is integrated into the eBay marketplace. Buyers will gain an easy way to talk to sellers quickly and get the information they need to buy, and sellers can more easily build relationships
 
with customers and close sales. As a result, Skype can increase the velocity of trade on eBay, especially in categories that require more involved communications such as used cars, business and industrial equipment, and high-end collectibles.
The acquisition also enables eBay and Skype to pursue entirely new lines of business. For example, in addition to eBay's current transaction-based fees, ecommerce communications could be monetized on a pay-per-call basis through Skype. Pay-per-call communications opens up new categories of ecommerce, especially for those sectors that depend on a lead-generation model such as personal and business services, travel, new cars, and real estate. eBay's other shopping websites  Shopping.com, Rent.com, Marktplaats.nl and Kijiji  can also benefit from the integration of Skype.
PayPal and Skype also make a powerful combination. For example, a PayPal wallet associated with each Skype account could make it much easier for users to pay for Skype fee-based services, adding to the number of PayPal accounts and increasing payment volume.
In addition, Skype can help expand the eBay and PayPal global footprint by providing buyers and sellers in emerging ecommerce markets, such as China, India, and Russia, with a more personal way to communicate online. And consumers in markets where eBay currently has a limited presence, such as Japan and Scandinavia, can learn about eBay and PayPal through Skype. Skype can also help streamline cross-border trading and communications.
With its rapidly expanding network of users, the Skype business complements the eBay and PayPal platforms. Each business is self-reinforcing, organically bringing greater returns with each new user or transaction. The three services can also reinforce and accelerate the growth of one another, thereby increasing the value of the combined businesses. Working together, they can create an unparalleled engine for ecommerce and communications around the world.
Transaction and Financial Information
eBay will acquire all of the outstanding shares of privately-held Skype for a total up-front consideration of approximately 2.1 billion, or approximately $2.6 billion, which is comprised of $1.3 billion in cash and the value of 32.4 million shares of eBay stock, which are subject to certain restrictions on resale.
The maximum amount potentially payable under the performance-based earn-out is approximately 1.2 billion, or approximately $1.5 billion, and would be payable in cash or eBay stock, at eBay's discretion, with an expected payment date in 2008 or 2009. Skype shareholders were offered the choice between several consideration options for their shares. Shareholders representing approximately 40% of the Skype shares chose to receive a single payment in cash and eBay stock at the close of the transaction. Shareholders representing the remaining 60% of the Skype shares chose to receive a reduced up-front payment in cash and eBay stock at the close plus potential future earn-out payments which are based on performance-based goals for active users, gross profit and revenue.
The above-mentioned dollar and eBay share amounts are approximate, based on the Euro-Dollar exchange rate and eBay's stock price as of September 9, 2005. The final value of the stock component of the consideration may vary significantly from this estimate based on the value of eBay stock at closing.
Skype generated approximately $7 million in revenues in 2004, and the company anticipates that it will generate an estimated $60 million in revenues in 2005 and more than $200 million in 2006. For Q4-05, eBay expects the acquisition to be dilutive to pro forma and GAAP earnings per share by $0.01 and $0.04 respectively. For the full year 2006, eBay expects the transaction to be dilutive to pro forma and GAAP
 
earnings per share by $0.04 and $0.12 respectively, with breakeven on a pro forma basis expected in the fourth quarter of 2006. On a long-term basis, eBay expects Skype operating margins could be in the range of 20% to 25%.
The acquisition is subject to various closing conditions and is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Founded in 1995, eBay pioneers communities built on commerce, sustained by trust, and inspired by opportunity. eBay enables ecommerce on a local, national and international basis with an array of websites  including the eBay Marketplace, PayPal, Kijiji, Rent.com and Shopping.com  that bring together millions of buyers and sellers every day.
About eBay Inc.
Skype, the Global Internet Communications Company, allows people everywhere to make free, unlimited, superior quality voice calls via its award-winning innovative peer-to-peer software for Windows, Linux, Mac OS X, and Pocket PC platforms. Skype is available in 27 languages and is the fastest growing voice communications offering worldwide. Since its launch in August 2003, Skype has been downloaded more than 163 million times in 225 countries and territories. Fifty-four million people are registered to use Skype's free services, with over 3 million simultaneous users on the network at any one time. Skype Technologies SA is headquartered in Luxembourg and is growing its offices in London and Estonia.
About Skype Technologies SA
www.skype.com
This announcement contains forward-looking statements regarding Skype and the expected impact of the acquisition of Skype on eBay's financial results. Those statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the timing of the closing of the transaction, the possibility that the transaction may not close, the reaction of the users of Skype's services, the future growth of Skype's user base and public acceptance of Internet voice communication services, rapid technological changes in the Internet voice communications sector, the reaction of competitors to the transaction, global developments in the regulation of Internet voice communication services including those provided by Skype, the possibility that integration of Skype's offerings following the transaction may be more difficult than expected, and the possibility that entry by Skype and eBay into potential new lines of business will not be successful. More information about potential factors which could affect eBay's business and financial results is included in eBay's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to eBay on the date hereof, and eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
Forward-Looking Statements
eBay will host an investor conference call to discuss the announcement at 5 am Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call can be accessed through the eBay's Investor Relations website at http://investor.ebay.com. An archive of the webcast will be accessible through the same link.
Editor's Note


