FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20050427165215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On April 27, 2005, eBay Inc. announced that Edward W. Barnholt had been elected as a new member of eBay's Board of Directors. A copy of eBay's press release announcing Mr. Barnholt's election is attached as an exhibit to this filing. Mr. Barnholt fills a vacancy created by an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from nine to ten. eBay's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for its Board of Directors to be divided into three classes, with each class having a three-year term. Mr. Barnholt will be a member of the first class of directors, with a term of office expiring at eBay's upcoming annual meeting of stockholders to be held on June 23, 2005, and will stand for election along with the other members of the first class of directors, Fred D. Anderson, Scott D. Cook, and Robert C. Kagle, at the annual meeting. Mr. Barnholt has not yet been named to any Committee of eBay's Board of Directors. eBay expects that its Board of Directors will consider Mr. Barnholt's Committee assignment a t the Board of Directors meeting to be held on June 23, 2005.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Exhibit 99.1
eBay (NASDAQ: EBAY; ), the World's Online Marketplace, today announced the appointment of Edward W. (Ned) Barnholt to its board of directors. Barnholt's term on the board begins immediately.
SAN JOSE, Calif., April 27, 2005 
www.ebay.com
"We're very excited that Ned has agreed to join eBay's board," said Meg Whitman, eBay's president and CEO. "He adds tremendous business and technology experience to an already world-class board of directors. Ned will be a great voice as the directors and management chart eBay's future."
Barnholt was responsible for guiding Agilent through its spin-off from Hewlett-Packard Company in 1999, and helped to shape a corporate culture widely recognized as best in class on a global basis.
Barnholt joined HP in 1966 in the company's former Microwave Division, applying engineering and business expertise to positions that successively included research-and-development engineer, marketing engineer and product manager. He worked his way through a series of positions, and in 1988, was elected as vice president. In 1990, Barnholt was appointed general manager of the Test and Measurement Organization. His appointments to senior vice president and then executive vice president followed in 1993 and 1996. He was named president and chief executive officer of Agilent Technologies in March 1999 and became chairman of the Board of Directors in November 2002. Barnholt retired from his posts on March 1, 2005.
Barnholt, who was born in 1943 in New York City, received both a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in electrical engineering from Stanford University. He is a director of KLA-Tencor Corporation.
eBay's board of directors also includes: Pierre Omidyar, founder and chairman of the board; Meg Whitman, president and CEO; Fred Anderson, managing director of Elevation Partners; Scott Cook, chairman of the executive committee of Intuit Inc.; Robert Kagle, general partner of Benchmark Capital Partners; Dawn Gould Lepore, CEO and chairman of drugstore.com; Philippe Bourguignon, Chairman of Aegis Media France; Thomas Tierney, founder and chairman of the Bridgespan Group; and Richard T. Schlosberg, III, former President and CEO of the David and Lucile Packard Foundation.
About eBay
eBay is The World's Online Marketplace. Founded in 1995, eBay created a powerful platform for the sale of goods and services by a passionate community of individuals and businesses. On any given day, there are millions of items across thousands of categories for sale on eBay. eBay enables trade on a local, national and international basis with customized sites in markets around the world. Through an array of services, such as its payment solution provider PayPal, eBay is enabling global e-commerce for an ever growing online community.


