FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20051019164312.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     On October 18, 2005, eBay Inc. entered into a separation agreement with Lynn M. Reedy, its Senior Vice President, Product, Development and Architecture. Pursuant to the agreement, Ms. Reedy will resign as an executive officer of the company on October 31, 2005, but will remain employed by the company in a transitional role through May 31, 2006. The agreement provides for Ms. Reedy to receive a severance payment equivalent to three months base salary and three months of accelerated stock option vesting. In addition, the agreement provides for Ms. Reedy to receive an additional two months of base salary and two months of accelerated stock option vesting in exchange for entering into certain non-competition provisions contained therein. A copy of the separation agreement is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this report, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     The information in this Item 2.02 and in Exhibit 99.1 attached to this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing by eBay Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
     On October 19, 2005, eBay Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. A copy of eBay's press release announcing its financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
     The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of gross profit, operating income, net income, earnings per share, cash flows and its effective tax rate, which are adjusted from results based on GAAP to exclude certain expenses, gains and losses. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance the investors' overall understanding of our current financial performance and our prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses that may not be indicative of our core operating results. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, we believe the inclusion of non-GAAP numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but are not a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. Consistent with our historical practice, the non-GAAP measures included in the attached press release have been reconciled to the nearest GAAP measure.
     The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to eBay's performance during the fourth quarter of 2005 and fiscal year 2006. A more thorough discussion of certain factors which may affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in eBay's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. Additional information will be included under those captions in eBay's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, which is currently expected to be filed with the SEC during the week of October 24, 2005.
Item 5.02. Departure of Director or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
     In connection with the closing of the company's acquisition of Skype Technologies S.A. on October 14, 2005, the company and Rajiv Dutta, the company's Chief Financial Officer, agreed that Mr. Dutta would transition to the newly-created role of President of Skype Technologies and resign from his current position as the company's Chief Financial Officer effective upon appointment of his successor as Chief Financial Officer.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
The following exhibits are filed (Exhibit 10.1) or furnished (Exhibit 99.1) with this report:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
October 17, 2005
Ms. Lynn Reedy
Dear Lynn:
              This letter sets forth the substance of the separation agreement (the "Separation Agreement") that eBay (the "Company") is offering to aid you with your employment transition.
. Your last day of active employment with the Company is anticipated to be May 31, 2006 (the "Separation Date"). You will continue to perform your current duties through October 31, 2005. On that date you will resign as an executive officer of the Company and will no longer be considered to be an "executive officer" of the Company under applicable SEC regulations. You will then take your sabbatical through the month of November. From December 1, 2005 through the Separation Date (the "Transition Period"), Maynard Webb (or, if he is no longer employed by the Company, Michael Jacobson) will assign you duties to perform, which may include, but not be limited to, transitioning your current job responsibilities. The Company will pay you all accrued salary, subject to standard payroll deductions and withholdings, earned through the Separation Date. You will also be paid all accrued and unused vacation time earned through the Separation Date, subject to standard payroll deductions and withholdings.
1.           SEPARATION
. Although the Company has no policy or procedure requiring payment of any severance benefits, the Company will make a severance payment to you in the form of a lump sum payment in the amount of $95,000, which is equivalent to three months of base pay, subject to standard deductions and withholdings and less any sums owing the Company. You will receive this payment after the Separation Date and after the eighth day following the re-execution of this Agreement.
2.           SEVERANCE
So long as you remain actively employed during the applicable quarter(s) and are otherwise eligible under the program, you will receive the quarterly eBay Incentive Plan (eIP) bonus for Q4 2005 and Q1 2006, if any, calculated for you at an individual rating of 100. Payment of such compensation will be paid out in accordance with the standard plan schedule and will be subject to standard payroll deductions and withholdings.
3.           ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION.
. Subject to your re-execution of this agreement as of the Separation Date and the passage of the period of time that you may revoke this contract thereafter (as referenced in Section 18 below) without any such revocation, and the terms of your stock option grant(s), on the Separation Date you will receive additional (accelerated) vesting of your stock options for three (3) months. Except for this acceleration and that described in Section 7 below, your vesting will cease on the Separation Date and you will have ninety (90) days or three (3) months (depending on your option agreement) from that date to exercise any vested options.
4.           STOCK OPTIONS
. As provided by the federal COBRA law and by the Company's current group health insurance policies, you will be eligible to continue your health insurance following the Separation Date and, later, to convert to an individual policy. You will be provided with a separate notice of your COBRA rights. You are entitled to COBRA insurance whether or not you sign this Agreement. If you elect continued coverage under COBRA, the Company will pay your COBRA premiums for three (3) months after the Separation Date as part of this Agreement. The Company's obligation to make these payments will cease immediately if you become eligible for other health insurance benefits at the expense of another employer. You agree to immediately provide the Company written notice of the availability of health insurance within that time period. Although you are entitled to COBRA insurance whether or not you sign this Agreement, if
5.           HEALTH INSURANCE
 
 
you want the Company to pay your COBRA premium(s) for the above-referenced time period, you must sign this Agreement.
(a) During the period beginning on the Separation Date and ending on the second anniversary of the Separation Date (the "Restricted Period"), you will not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Company, own, manage, operate, join, control, finance or participate in the ownership, management, operation, control or financing of, or be connected as an officer, director, employee, stockholder, Affiliate, promoter, manager, partner, principal, agent, representative, advisor (whether paid or not) or consultant of, for or to, any of the businesses on our previously agreed list (and any of their subsidiaries or divisions; each, a "").
6.           NON-COMPETITION.
Restricted Business
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6(a), you will not be deemed to be in contravention of the provisions of Section 6(a): if you own shares as a passive investor in a Restricted Business, provided that: (A) such shares are actively traded on an established national securities market in the United States; and (B) the number of shares of such entity's capital stock that are owned beneficially (directly or indirectly) by you collectively represent less than one percent (1%) of the total number of shares of such entity's capital stock outstanding.
As consideration for the non-compete agreement contained in Section 6 above, subject to the terms of your options, you will receive as an additional benefit an additional two (2) months acceleration of vesting of your options as of the Separation Date and an additional $63,333, which is the equivalent of two months base salary.
7.           ADDITIONAL CONSIDERATION.
. You acknowledge that, except as expressly provided in this Separation Agreement, you will not receive nor are you entitled to receive any additional compensation, severance or benefits after the Separation Date. You recognize and agree that your employment relationship with the Company is permanently and irrevocably severed and the Company has no obligation, contractual or otherwise, to hire, re-hire or re-employ you in the future.
8.           OTHER COMPENSATION OR BENEFITS
Your employment at all times, including during the Transition Period, remains "at-will" and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as altering the at-will relationship. Either you or the Company may terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause or advanced notice. If, however, the Company terminates your employment prior to the Separation Date for reasons other than Cause (as defined herein), the Company will pay you the balance of your salary through the Separation Date at your then-current rate and make the additional payments called for by Sections 2-4 above, and will provide COBRA sponsorship pursuant to Section 5 above, unless you are or become eligible for other health insurance benefits at the expense of another employer. For purposes hereof, termination for "Cause" shall mean termination upon the occurrence of any one of the following: (i) your willful failure to substantially perform your assigned duties, which failure continues after written notice to you, other than failure resulting from your death or incapacity due to physical or mental illness or impairment; (ii) a willful act by you that constitutes misconduct and that is injurious to eBay or any of its affiliates or subsidiaries (collectively, the "Companies"); (iii) a breach by you of a material provision of this Agreement; (iv) a material violation by you of any law or regulation relating to the business of any of the Companies; or (v) a breach by you of your fiduciary duty, if any, to any of the Companies. In the event of early termination (by either you or the Company for any reason), your stock options will cease vesting as of the date thereof, and you will have 90 days or three months from that date (depending on your option agreement) to exercise any vested options.
9.           "AT-WILL" EMPLOYMENT.
. Within ten (10) days of the Separation Date, you will submit your final documented expense reimbursement statement reflecting any and all authorized business expenses you incurred through the Separation Date for which you seek reimbursement. The Company will reimburse you for such expenses pursuant to its regular business practice.
10.          EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENTS
. By the Separation Date, you will return to the Company all Company documents (and all copies thereof) and other Company property and materials in your
11.          RETURN OF COMPANY PROPERTY
2
 
possession, or your control, including, but not limited to, Company files, notes, memoranda, correspondence, lists, drawings, records, plans and forecasts, financial information, personnel information, customer and customer prospect information, sales and marketing information, product development and pricing information, specifications, computer-recorded information, tangible property, credit cards, entry cards, identification badges and keys; and any materials of any kind which contain or embody any proprietary or confidential material of the Company (and all reproductions thereof).
. You acknowledge your continuing obligations under your Employee Information and Inventions Agreement (a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A), which include but are not limited to the obligation to refrain from any unauthorized use or disclosure of any confidential or proprietary information of the Company.
12.          PROPRIETARY INFORMATION OBLIGATIONS
. To the extent not publicly disclosed pursuant to SEC regulations, the provisions of this Separation Agreement will be held in strictest confidence by you and by us and will not be publicized or disclosed in any manner whatsoever; provided, however, that: (a) you may disclose this Agreement to your immediate family; (b) you and we may disclose this Agreement in confidence to your or our attorneys, accountants, auditors, tax preparers, financial advisors and other agents; and (c) you or we may disclose this Separation Agreement insofar as such disclosure may be necessary to enforce its terms or as otherwise required by law.
13.          CONFIDENTIALITY
. You agree not to disparage the Company, the Company's officers, directors, employees, shareholders and agents, affiliates and subsidiaries in any manner likely to be harmful to them or their business, business reputation or personal reputation; provided that you will respond accurately and fully to any question, inquiry or request for information when required by legal process. We will similarly not disparage you in any manner likely to be harmful to you or your reputation.
14.          NONDISPARAGEMENT
. In consideration for the payments and other promises and undertakings contained in this Separation Agreement to which you would not otherwise be entitled, and except as otherwise set forth in this Separation Agreement, and your rights under your indemnification agreement with the Company and the Company's Directors' and Officers' Insurance policies, all of which rights shall continue following the Separation Date, you release, acquit and forever discharge the Company, its parents and subsidiaries, and its and their respective officers, directors, agents, servants, employees, attorneys, shareholders, successors, assigns and affiliates, of and from any and all claims, liabilities, demands, charges, causes of action, costs, expenses, attorneys fees, damages, indemnities and obligations of every kind and nature, in law, equity, or otherwise, which you assert or could assert against the Company at common law or under any statute, rule, regulation, order or law, whether federal, state or local, on any ground whatsoever, known and unknown, suspected and unsuspected, disclosed and undisclosed, arising out of or in any way related to agreements, events, acts or conduct at any time prior to and including the date you sign this Agreement, including but not limited to: all such claims and demands directly or indirectly arising out of or in any way connected with your employment with the Company or the termination of that employment; claims or demands related to salary, bonuses, commissions, stock, stock options, or any other ownership interests in the Company, vacation or other time off pay, fringe benefits, expense reimbursements, severance pay, or any other form of compensation; any and all causes of action, including but not limited to actions for breach of contract, express or implied, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied, wrongful termination in violation of public policy, all other claims for wrongful termination and constructive discharge, and all other tort claims, including, but not limited to, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, invasion of privacy, negligence, negligent investigation, negligent hiring, supervision or retention, assault and battery, false imprisonment, defamation, intentional or negligent misrepresentation, fraud, and any and all claims arising under any federal, state or local law or statute, including, but not limited to, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act; Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; the Civil Rights Act of 1991; the Fair Labor Standards Act; the Employee Retirement and Income Security Act; the Americans with Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C.  1981; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended ("ADEA"); the Family and Medical Leave Act; the California Family Rights Act; the California Labor Code; the California Civil Code; the California Constitution; and any and all other laws and regulations relating to employment termination, employment discrimination, harassment or retaliation, claims for wages,
15.          RELEASE OF CLAIMS
3
 
hours, benefits, compensation, and any and all claims for attorneys' fees and costs, inasmuch as is permissible by law and by the respective governmental enforcement agencies for the above-listed laws.
. You acknowledge that you have read and understand Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which reads as follows: "A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
16.          RELEASE OF UNKNOWN CLAIMS
You hereby knowingly, intentionally, and expressly waive and relinquish all rights and benefits under that section and any law of any jurisdiction of similar effect with respect to your release of any unknown or unsuspected claims you may have against the Company.
. This Separation Agreement, including all exhibits, constitutes the complete, final and exclusive embodiment of the entire agreement between you and the Company with regard to this subject matter. It is entered into without reliance on any promise or representation, written or oral, other than those expressly contained herein, and it supersedes any other such promises, warranties or representations, prior agreements and communications, whether oral or written, as to the specific subjects of this letter by and between you and the Company. This Separation Agreement may not be modified or amended except in writing signed by both you and a duly authorized officer of the Company. This Separation Agreement will bind the heirs, personal representatives, successors and assigns of both you and the Company, and inure to the benefit of both you and the Company, their heirs, successors and assigns. If any provision of this Separation Agreement is determined to be invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, this determination will not affect any other provision of this Separation Agreement and the provision in question will be modified by the court so as to be rendered enforceable. No waiver by the Company of any right under this Separation Agreement shall be construed as a waiver of any other right, nor shall any waiver by the Company of any breach of this Separation Agreement be a waiver of any preceding or succeeding breach. This Separation Agreement will be deemed to have been entered into and will be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California as applied to contracts made and to be performed entirely within California.
17.          MISCELLANEOUS
18.          I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE BEEN ADVISED BY THIS WRITING, AS REQUIRED BY THE AGE DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT ACT (ADEA) AND THE OLDER WORKERS' BENEFIT PROTECTION ACT (OWBPA), THAT: (a) MY WAIVER AND RELEASE DO NOT APPLY TO ANY RIGHTS OR CLAIMS THAT MAY ARISE AFTER THE EXECUTION DATES OF THIS AGREEMENT; (b) I HAVE BEEN ADVISED HEREBY THAT I HAVE THE RIGHT TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY PRIOR TO EXECUTING THIS AGREEMENT; (c) I HAVE TWENTY-ONE (21) DAYS TO CONSIDER THIS AGREEMENT (ALTHOUGH I MAY CHOOSE TO VOLUNTARILY EXECUTE THIS AGREEMENT EARLIER); (d) I HAVE SEVEN (7) DAYS FOLLOWING THE EXECUTION OF THIS AGREEMENT TO REVOKE THE AGREEMENT; AND (e) THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE EFECTIVE UNTIL THE DATE UPON WHICH THE RESPECTIVE REVOCATION PERIOD HAS EXPIRED, WHICH WILL BE THE EIGHTH DAY AFTER THIS AGREEMENT IS EXECUTED AND, WITH RESPECT TO SECTIONS 2,4,8, AND 11-19 SUBSEQUENTLY RE-EXECUTED BY ME, PROVIDED THAT THE COMPANY HAS ALSO EXECUTED THIS AGREEMENT BY THAT DATE.
              Upon acceptance of this Separation Agreement, please sign below within the timeframe specified above and return the executed original to me. Upon your signature below, this will become our binding agreement with respect to your separation from the Company and its terms merging and superceding in their entirety all other or prior agreements and communications, whether written or oral, by you and eBay as to the specific subjects of this Agreement.
4
 
I UNDERSTAND AND AGREE TO THE TERMS CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT AND INTEND, BY MY SIGNATURE BELOW, TO BE LEGALLY BOUND BY THOSE TERMS. I AM SIGNING THIS RELEASE KNOWINGLY, WILLINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY IN EXCHANGE FOR THE SEVERANCE BENEFITS DESCRIBED ABOVE:
Please re-execute below on your Separation Date.
I HAVE READ AND AGREE TO THE FOREGOING RELEASE OF CLAIMS AS OF THE DATE SET FORTH BELOW:
5

 
Exhibit 99.1
San Jose, CA, October 19, 2005  eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY; www.ebay.com) reported financial results for its quarter ended September 30, 2005.
eBay reported record consolidated Q3-05 net revenues of $1.106 billion, up 37% year over year; operating income of $356.7 million, up 40% year over year, representing a 32% operating margin; and pro forma operating income of $393.6 million, up 44% year over year, representing a 36% pro forma operating margin.
Consolidated net income in Q3-05 was $255.0 million, or $0.18 per diluted share. eBay's pro forma consolidated net income was $280.2 million, or $0.20 per diluted share. Consolidated net income and pro forma net income include a one-time charge of $16.6 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, from the final application of tax regulations requiring the inclusion of stock option expense in intercompany cost sharing arrangements.
These results exceeded the high end of the company's guidance of $1.070 billion for net revenues, met the company's guidance of $0.18 for GAAP earnings per diluted share and exceeded the company's guidance of $0.19 for pro forma earnings per diluted share.
"We saw very strong growth across every part of our business in Q3," said Meg Whitman, President and CEO of eBay. "It's wonderful to see so much strength in our two largest marketplaces, the US and Germany. We're excited about the great momentum eBay and PayPal have going into the holiday shopping season."
eBay also announced that Rajiv Dutta, the company's chief financial officer, will transition to the new role of president of Skype after his successor is named. Dutta will work with Skype CEO Niklas Zennstrm and Whitman on Skype's growth and integration across eBay and PayPal. Dutta will remain a member of eBay's executive management team.
"Rajiv's contributions to eBay's success during the past seven years have been enormous," said Whitman. "He'll play an even bigger role in eBay's future by helping Niklas and his team achieve Skype's full potential."
Key Financial and Operating Metrics
 Consolidated net revenues totaled a record $1.106 billion in Q3-05, which represented an increase of 37% from the $805.9 million reported in Q3-04.
Consolidated Net Revenues
 Cumulative confirmed registered users at the end of Q3-05 totaled 168.1 million, representing a 35% increase over the 125.0 million users reported at the end of Q3-04.
Confirmed Registered Users
 
eBay Announces Q3-05 Earnings (cont.)
 Active users, the number of users on the eBay platform who bid, bought, or listed an item within the previous 12-month period, increased to a record 68.0 million in Q3-05, a 32% increase over the 51.7 million active users reported in the same period a year ago.
Active Users
 New listings totaled a record 458.6 million in Q3-05, 32% higher than the 348.0 million new listings reported in Q3-04.
Listings
 GMV, the total value of all successfully closed items on eBay's trading platforms, was $10.8 billion, representing a 30% year-over-year increase from the $8.3 billion reported in Q3-04.
Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV)
 PayPal's business had 86.6 million total accounts at the end of Q3-05, a 53% increase from the 56.7 million reported in Q3-04. Total payments accounts represents the cumulative total of all accounts opened, excluding accounts that have been closed or locked, and including users that made payments with PayPal but have not registered.
Total Payments Accounts
 TPV, the dollar volume of payments initiated through the PayPal system, was a record $6.7 billion in Q3-05, a 44% increase from the $4.6 billion reported in Q3-04.
Total Payment Volume (TPV)
 GAAP operating income increased 40% year over year to $356.7 million, or 32% of net revenues.
GAAP Operating Income
 Pro forma operating income increased 44% year over year to $393.6 million, or 36% of net revenues. Pro forma operating income represents GAAP operating income adjusted to exclude certain items, primarily stock based compensation expense and related payroll taxes and amortization of acquired intangible assets.
Pro Forma Operating Income
 GAAP net income increased 40% year over year to $255.0 million, or $0.18 per diluted share.
GAAP Net Income
 Pro forma net income increased 44% year over year to $280.2 million, or $0.20 per diluted share. Pro forma net income represents GAAP net income adjusted to exclude certain items, primarily stock based compensation expense and related payroll taxes, amortization of acquired intangible assets and income taxes related to these items.
Pro Forma Net Income
 Operating cash flows increased 79% year over year to $491.7 million. Free cash flows, representing operating cash flows less net purchases of property and equipment of $42.2 million, totaled $449.5 million.
Operating and Free Cash Flows
 Based on Q3-05 GMV, the following categories delivered $1 billion or more in worldwide annualized GMV: eBay Motors at $14.1 billion; Clothing & Accessories at $3.1 billion; Consumer Electronics at $3.0 billion; Computers at $3.0 billion; Books/Movies/Music at $2.5 billion; Home & Garden at $2.4 billion; Sports at $2.1 billion; Collectibles at $2.1 billion; Jewelry & Watches at $1.6 billion; Business & Industrial at $1.5 billion; Toys at $1.5 billion; and Cameras & Photo at $1.3 billion.
Key Category Performance*
 
 
eBay Announces Q3-05 Earnings (cont.)
 eBay's fixed price trading contributed approximately $3.4 billion or 32% of total GMV during Q3-05, primarily from eBay's "Buy It Now" feature.
Fixed Price Trading
 At the end of Q3-05, eBay hosted approximately 336,000 stores worldwide, with approximately 193,000 stores hosted on the U.S. site.
eBay Stores
Consolidated Financial and Operating Summary
eBay reported record consolidated net revenues of $1.106 billion in Q3-05, representing a 37% year-over-year increase. Foreign currency translation resulted in a year-over-year benefit of approximately $3.1 million and, on a sequential basis, negatively impacted Q3-05 revenues by approximately $15.5 million.
Gross profit was $905.1 million in Q3-05, or 82% of net revenues, which is higher than the 81% reported in Q3-04, due primarily to an increase in our Payments segment gross margin.
Sales and marketing expenses totaled $293.7 million, or 27% of net revenues, up from the 26% reported in Q3-04. The percentage increase was primarily the result of international expansion and industry-wide increases in Internet marketing rates, partially offset by marketing efficiencies.
Product development expenses totaled $78.9 million, or 7% of net revenues, down slightly from the 8% reported in Q3-04.
General and administrative costs totaled $144.3 million, or 13% of net revenues, consistent with the percentage reported in Q3-04.
Income from operations totaled $356.7 million during Q3-05, a 40% increase over the $253.9 million reported in Q3-04. On a pro forma basis, income from operations totaled $393.6 million, a 44% increase over the $272.6 million reported in Q3-04. Foreign currency translation resulted in a year over year negative impact on both the GAAP and pro forma Q3-05 consolidated income from operations of approximately $1.2 million and, on a sequential basis, resulted in a negative impact to both GAAP and pro forma consolidated income from operations in Q3-05 of approximately $9.5 million.
Interest and other income, net, totaled $30.7 million in Q3-05, up from the $13.2 million reported in Q3-04. The increase was primarily the result of increased interest income earned on larger cash, cash equivalents, and investment balances.
The GAAP effective tax rate for Q3-05 was 34%, an increase from the GAAP effective tax rate of 30% for Q3-04, and an increase from the 29% for Q2-05. The pro forma effective tax rate for Q3-05 was 34%, an increase from the pro forma effective tax rate of 31% for Q3-04, and an increase from the 30% for Q2-05. The higher GAAP and pro forma effective tax rates for Q3-05 result primarily from a one-time $16.6 million charge related to the final application of tax regulations requiring the inclusion of stock option expense in intercompany cost sharing arrangements. Excluding this one-time charge, the Q3-05 effective tax rate would have been 30%.
 
eBay Announces Q3-05 Earnings (cont.)
The company reported $491.7 million in operating cash flows and $42.2 million of net purchases of property and equipment in Q3-05, resulting in free cash flows of $449.5 million. The company's cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled nearly $3.9 billion at the end of Q3-05.
Business Outlook
The following updated guidance reflects current business trends and assumed exchange rates. This guidance is based on a weighted average exchange rate of US $1.20 per Euro, which is consistent with prior guidance. The guidance reflects the acquisition of Skype Technologies SA ("Skype") that closed on October 14, 2005 and the pending acquisition of VeriSign, Inc.'s payment gateway business which is expected to close in Q4-05. The guidance does not include the impact of any other potential acquisitions or the impact of expensing stock options under FAS 123(R) "Share-Based Payment."
Fiscal Year 2005
Net Revenues  eBay now expects consolidated net revenues for 2005 to be in the range of $4.47 billion to $4.51 billion. In Q4-05, eBay now expects consolidated net revenues to be in the range of $1.245 billion to $1.285 billion. These Q4-05 estimates include $35 million from Shopping.com and $20 million from Skype. Excluding Shopping.com and Skype, this guidance represents a $10 million increase from our previous guidance reflecting strong business momentum.
GAAP Diluted EPS  eBay now estimates GAAP earnings per diluted share for the full year 2005 to be as high as $0.74. In Q4-05, eBay now estimates GAAP earnings per diluted share to be $0.16, which reflects dilution of $0.04 from Skype.
Pro Forma Diluted EPS  eBay now estimates pro forma earnings per diluted share for the full year 2005 to be as high as $0.83. In Q4-05, eBay now estimates pro forma earnings per diluted share to be $0.21, which reflects dilution of $0.01 from Skype.
Capital Expenditures  eBay continues to expect its capital expenditures to be in the range of $340 million to $400 million for the full year 2005, which amount to approximately 8% to 9%, respectively, of eBay's guidance for net revenues. These expected capital expenditures for 2005 exclude the Q1-05 payment of a lease obligation for our headquarters facility of approximately $126 million.
Fiscal Year 2006
Net Revenues  eBay expects consolidated net revenues for 2006 to be in the range of $5.70 billion to $5.90 billion. This guidance includes expected net revenues from Skype of approximately $200 million.
GAAP Diluted EPS  eBay expects GAAP earnings per diluted share for the full year 2006 to be in the range of $0.81 to $0.86, including dilution of $0.12 from Skype.
Pro Forma Diluted EPS eBay expects pro forma earnings per diluted share for the full year 2006 to be in the range of $0.96 to $1.01, including dilution of $0.04 from Skype.
 
eBay Announces Q3-05 Earnings (cont.)
Quarterly Conference Call
eBay will host a conference call to discuss third quarter results at 2 pm Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations website at http://investor.ebay.com. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible through the same link.
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement the company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include pro forma net income, pro forma earnings per diluted share, pro forma operating income, pro forma operating margin, and free cash flows. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future. Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP results provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses that may not be indicative of its core operating results. In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in this press release, can be found in the financial tables included on pages, 9, 10 and 11 of this press release.
About eBay
Founded in 1995, eBay pioneers communities built on commerce, sustained by trust, and inspired by opportunity. eBay enables ecommerce on a local, national and international basis with an array of websites  including the eBay Marketplace, PayPal, Kijiji, Rent.com and Shopping.com  that bring together millions of buyers and sellers every day.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries. Those statements involve risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the company's need to manage an increasingly large company with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity; the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users as well as from new users in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive e-commerce environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the need to integrate, manage, and profitably expand the newly-acquired Skype business; the regulatory and competitive risks specific to Skype; the litigation, regulatory, credit card association, and other risks specific to PayPal as it continues to expand geographically; the company's need to manage other regulatory, tax, and litigation risks even as its product offerings expand and its services are offered in more jurisdictions; the company's ability to upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth at a reasonable cost; the company's ability to maintain
 
eBay Announces Q3-05 Earnings (cont.)
site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion; the company's ability to profitably expand its model to new types of merchandise and sellers; and, the company's ability to profitably integrate and manage recent and future acquisitions and other transactions. With the exception of the pending acquisition of VeriSign, Inc.'s payment gateway business, the forward looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions that may be completed after the date hereof or the impact of expensing stock options under FAS 123(R) "Share-Based Payment."
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations site at http://investor.ebay.com. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Type
 
Net Revenues by Segment
Net Revenues by Geography
 
Rent.com, Shopping.com, and our classifieds websites are not included in these metrics.
 
 
 
 
The guidance figures provided below and elsewhere in this press release are approximate in nature because eBay's future performance is difficult to predict. Such guidance is based on information available on the date hereof, and eBay assumes no obligation to update it.
eBay's future performance involves risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from such guidance. Some of the factors that could affect the company's operating results are set forth under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" above in this press release. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations site at http://investor.ebay.com.
 


