FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20060501204417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On May 1, 2006, eBay Inc. ("eBay" or the "Company") announced that Maynard Webb, its Chief Operating Officer, plans to retire from the Company in August 2006. A copy of eBay's press release announcing Mr. Webb's retirement is attached as an exhibit to this filing.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

Media Contact: Hani Durzy eBay Inc. 408.376.7458 hdurzy@ebay.com
eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today announced that Maynard Webb, its Chief Operating Officer, plans to retire from the company in August 2006. Webb is responsible for corporate operations, including the legal, human resources, and corporate technology functions. In 1999, Webb joined eBay as President, eBay Technologies, and in June 2002, he was named COO of eBay Inc. During his career at eBay, Webb also played an integral role in leading the development and growth of the company's product management, customer support, and trust and safety departments. Under Webb's stewardship, the eBay operations and technology teams built the foundation that enabled the company's unparalleled growth.
San Jose, Calif., May 1, 2006 
"I want to thank Maynard for all of his contributions to making this company successful, and wish him well as he starts the next chapter of his life," said Meg Whitman, President and CEO, eBay Inc. "In his time at eBay, Maynard built a world-class operations group that managed our phenomenal growth. He's been a great partner and a close friend, and I will miss him."
"Working at eBay for the past seven years has been an amazing experience," said Webb. "I've had the pleasure of working side-by-side with some of the smartest and most innovative people in the industry to build a community-oriented business that has changed people's lives. It doesn't get better than that."
eBay has no plans to fill Webb's role. Over the past year, Webb and Whitman oversaw the decentralization of many operational functions in order to better serve the business needs of the company's various platforms. Mike Jacobson, General Counsel, and Beth Axelrod, Senior Vice President of Human Resources, will report directly to Whitman. Corporate technology will be jointly managed by Matt Carey, Chief Technology Officer, eBay Marketplaces, and Scott Thompson, Chief Technology Officer, PayPal.
Prior to joining eBay, Webb was senior vice president and CIO at Gateway, Inc. He also worked as CIO at Bay Networks and managed technology operations at Quantum, Thomas Conrad, Figgie International, and IBM.
Founded in 1995, eBay pioneers communities built on commerce, sustained by trust, and inspired by opportunity. eBay enables ecommerce on a local, national and international basis with an array of websites  including the eBay Marketplaces, PayPal, Skype, Kijiji, Rent.com and Shopping.com  that bring together millions of buyers and sellers every day.
About eBay Inc.


