FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20060221162338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 21, 2006, eBay Inc. ("eBay") announced that it had named Robert H. Swan as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the company, effective March 16, 2006. A description of the offer letter dated February 10, 2006 and executed on February 18, 2006 between eBay Inc. and Mr. Swan is included in Item 5.02 of this report, and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the offer letter is also attached as an exhibit to this report.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On February 21, 2006, eBay announced that it had named Robert H. Swan as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer of the company, effective March 16, 2006. Mr. Swan will replace Rajiv Dutta, who, as previously announced, will complete his transition to his new role as President of the company's Skype business. Prior to joining eBay, Mr. Swan, 45, served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Electronic Data Systems Corporation beginning in February 2003. Prior to joining EDS, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of TRW Inc. from July 2001 to December 2002. Mr. Swan served in executive positions at Webvan Group, Inc. from 1999 to 2001, including Chief Executive Officer from April to July 2001, Chief Operating Officer from September 2000 to July 2001 and Chief Financial Officer from October 1999 to July 2001. eBay and Mr. Swan have entered into an offer letter dated February 10, 2006 and executed on February 18, 2006. Under the terms of the of fer letter, Mr. Swan will be paid an annual base salary of $600,000, and will be eligible for a special retention bonus of up to $1,000,000, of which $200,000 will be payable within two payroll periods of his commencement of employment, and the remaining $800,000 will be payable in equal installments on the first, second, third, and fourth anniversaries of his commencement of employment, assuming his continued employment with eBay. Mr. Swan will also be eligible to participate in the eBay Incentive Program, with a target annual bonus of 85% of his base salary. eBay will also assist with Mr. Swan's relocation expenses from Plano, Texas to the San Francisco Bay Area. In accordance with the offer letter, the Compensation Committee of eBay's Board of Directors has granted Mr. Swan an option to purchase 375,000 shares of eBay common stock, which will be made in two equal tranches, with the first grant to be made and priced effective the Friday following Mr. Swan's first full week of employment, and the sec ond grant to be made and priced effective 26 weeks from the date of the first grant. Both tranches of the option will vest with respect to 25% of the shares one year after the commencement of employment and with respect to an additional 1/48 of the shares monthly thereafter. In addition, the Compensation Committee of eBay's Board of Directors has approved a special one-time award of restricted stock to Mr. Swan in the amount of 50,000 shares of eBay common stock to be issued effective the Friday following his first full week of employment, and vesting 25% on each of the first four anniversaries of the commencement of his employment. The offer letter provides that Mr. Swan's employment is "at-will," and does not provide for any change-in-control arrangements or severance payments.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

February 10, 2006
VIA FEDERAL EXPRESS
Mr. Bob Swan
Dear Bob:
eBay Inc. ("the Company" or "eBay") is pleased to offer you, subject to approval by eBay's Board of Directors, the exempt position of Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, eBay Inc. at a salary of $23,076.93 paid bi-weekly, which is equivalent to an annualized salary of $600,000.18.
You will be entitled to the benefits that eBay customarily makes available to employees in positions comparable to yours and it will be recommended to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors that you be granted an option for the purchase of 375,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock. The grant will be split into two equal tranches, with the first grant to be issued and priced effective the Friday following your first full week of employment, and the second grant to be issued and priced effective 26 weeks from the date of the first grant. The options will be granted under the Company's 2001 Equity Incentive Plan and, assuming you remain an employee, will vest with respect to 25% of the shares subject to the options one year after the commencement of your employment and, at the end of each month thereafter, with respect to an additional 1/48 of the shares subject to the options. Enclosed is the Company's Insider Trading Policy, which outlines the procedures and guidelines governing securities trades by Company personnel. Please review the Policy carefully, execute the certification and return it to me.
You will be eligible to participate in the eBay Incentive Plan (eIP), which is comprised of 5 components: 4 quarterly and 1 annual. Payouts are based on individual achievement as well as Company performance. Your target bonus under the current program would be 85% of your base salary. Your maximum bonus would be 200% of target. Eligibility for this program begins with your first full business quarter of employment. You must be employed on the last day of the calendar quarter to be eligible for the quarterly pay out. To be eligible for the annual bonus component, you would need to be employed on the first day of the 4calendar quarter and be employed on the last day of such quarter. The Company reserves the right to amend, change or cancel the plan at its sole discretion.
th
You shall also be eligible to receive a special retention bonus of $1,000,000 paid in 5 equal installments. The amount of $200,000.00 (less deductions and applicable taxes) will be payable within two payroll periods of your start date. The remaining $800,000 will be payable as follows: $200,000 (less deductions and applicable taxes) annually over the first four years of your
employment, payable on the first (twelve months), second (24 months), third (36 months) and fourth (48 months) anniversaries of your start date. Each scheduled bonus payment is subject to your continued full time employment with the Company on each scheduled payment date and to standard payroll deductions and tax withholding. You fully understand that if your employment with the Company ceases, for any reason, prior to the occurrence of any installment payment date, you will not be eligible to receive such bonus and no pro rata bonus can be earned.
We will also recommend to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors that you receive a special one-time award of restricted stock in the amount of 50,000 eBay shares to be issued effective the Friday following your first full week of employment. The shares will vest 25% on each of the first four anniversaries of the commencement of your employment.
eBay will assist with expenses incurred for your relocation from Plano, Texas to the San Francisco Bay Area under the terms of eBay's relocation assistance program. Details regarding the terms of such relocation will be provided to you shortly.
Under federal immigration laws, the Company is required to verify each new employee's identity and legal authority to work in the United States. Accordingly, please be prepared to furnish appropriate documents satisfying those requirements; this offer of employment is conditioned on submission of satisfactory documentation. Enclosed is a list of the required documents.
Your employment at the Company is "at-will" and either you or the Company may terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause or advance notice. The at-will nature of the employment relationship can only be changed by written agreement signed by eBay's Chief Executive Officer. Other terms, conditions, job responsibilities, compensation and benefits may be adjusted by the Company from time to time in its sole discretion.
All of us at eBay are very excited about you joining our team and look forward to a beneficial and fruitful relationship. However, should any dispute arise with respect to your employment or the termination of that employment, we both agree that such dispute shall be conclusively resolved by final, binding and confidential arbitration in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association (AAA), rather than by a jury court or administrative agency. The Company will bear those expenses unique to arbitration. Please review the enclosed Mutual Arbitration Agreement carefully.
As a condition of your employment, you must complete both the Mutual Arbitration Agreement and the enclosed Employee Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement prior to commencing employment. In part, the Employee Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement requires that a departing employee refrain from unauthorized use or disclosure of the Company's confidential information (as defined in that Agreement). This Agreement prevent a former employee from using know-how and expertise in any new field or position. If you should have any questions about the Employee Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement, please call me. Otherwise, please sign and date this document and return it to me in the enclosed envelope.
does not
This letter with attachments, the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, and the Employee Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement contain the entire agreement with respect to your employment. Should you have any questions with regard to any of the items indicated above, please call me. Kindly indicate your consent to this agreement by signing copies of this letter, the Mutual Arbitration Agreement, and the Employee Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement and returning them to me, along with the Company's Insider Trading Policy certification.
This offer is contingent upon your background verification and approval by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. This is our sole binding agreement with respect to your employment and its terms merging and superseding in their entirety all other or prior offers, agreements and communications, whether written or oral, by you and the Company as to the specific subjects of this letter.
Bob, on a more personal note, I am thrilled about the prospect of you joining our team. I have every confidence you will contribute considerably to eBay's continued success. It would be my great pleasure to partner with you in doing that. I look forward to you coming on board
.
Sincerely,
Meg Whitman
/s/ Meg Whitman
Accepted:
2/18/06
/s/ Robert H. Swan


