FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20060719163650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Form 8-K
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The information in this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing by eBay Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
 
On July 19, 2006, eBay Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. A copy of eBay's press release announcing its financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release contains non-GAAP financial measures. For purposes of Regulation G, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flows, as well as GAAP amounts excluding the impact of stock-based compensation expenses and the corresponding percentages of net revenues. eBay makes reference to measures of operating income, gross profit, certain expenses (including cost of net revenues, sales and marketing, product development, and general and administrative), net income and earnings per share for the second quarter of 2006, which exclude stock-based compensation to allow for a better comparison of results in the current period to those in prior periods that did not include FAS 123(R) stock-based compensation. eBay's reference to these measures should be considered in addition to results that are prepared under current accounting standards but should not be considered a substitute for results that are presented as consistent with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future and provide further information for comparative information due the adoption of the new accounting standard FAS 123(R). Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses, and net purchases of property and equipment that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook.
 
In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting. The company believes the non-GAAP measures that exclude only stock-based compensation enhance the comparability of results against prior periods. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in the attached press release can be found in the financial tables included on pages 8, 9, 10, 11, and 16 of the release. For non-GAAP measures that solely exclude stock-based compensation, the reconciliation to GAAP is presented in narrative form in the release when the non-GAAP measure is referenced.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to eBay's performance during the remainder of fiscal year 2006. A more thorough discussion of certain factors that may affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in eBay's Annual Report on and Quarterly Reports on Additional information will be included under those captions in eBay's Quarterly Report on for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, which will be filed with the SEC during the third quarter of 2006.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q.
Form 10-Q
 
 
(c) 
Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
eBay Inc.
(Registrant)
 
/s/  Michael R. Jacobson
Name: Michael R. Jacobson
 
Date: July 19, 2006
Table of Contents
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
San Jose, CA, July 19, 2006  eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY; www.ebay.com) reported financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2006.
eBay reported record consolidated Q2-06 net revenues of $1.411 billion, representing a growth rate of 30% year over year and GAAP operating income of $311 million representing a 22% operating margin. Non-GAAP operating income in Q2-06 was $460 million representing a 33% operating margin.
GAAP net income in Q2-06 was $250 million, or $0.17 earnings per diluted share. Non-GAAP net income in Q2-06 was $351 million, or $0.24 earnings per diluted share.
These results were in the range of the company's guidance of $1.370 billion to $1.415 billion for net revenues and exceeded the high end of the company's guidance of $0.16 for GAAP earnings per diluted share, and $0.23 for non-GAAP earnings per diluted share.
As of June 30, 2006, eBay's cash and marketable securities of nearly $4 billion is at the highest level in the history of the company.
The company announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of the company's stock within the next two years.
"Q2 was a good quarter for the company driven by solid growth across eBay, PayPal and Skype," said Meg Whitman, President and CEO of eBay Inc. "Our stock repurchase plan underscores our confidence in our ability to generate strong profitability and cash flows while investing in the future of the company."
The company also announced marketing and pricing initiatives it expects will increase the velocity of trading on the eBay marketplace.
Key Q2 Financial and Operating Metrics
 Consolidated net revenues totaled $1.411 billion in Q2-06, a growth rate of 30% over the $1.086 billion reported in Q2-05.
Consolidated Net Revenues
 
eBay Announces Q2-06 Financial Results (cont.)
Marketplaces
Payments
Communications
 
eBay Announces Q2-06 Financial Results (cont.)
Consolidated Financial and Operating Summary
Note that beginning with Q1-06, eBay's financial results include stock-based compensation from the adoption of the new accounting standard, FAS 123(R). eBay's financial results for prior periods have not been restated for FAS 123(R). eBay discloses its non-GAAP financial measures, which in each case excludes the stock-based compensation as well as stock option related payroll taxes, amortization of acquired intangible assets and the income taxes related to these items.
eBay reported consolidated net revenues of $1.411 billion in Q2-06, representing a growth rate of 30% year over year which is primarily due to continued Marketplaces and PayPal growth and acquisitions made in the past 12 months, including Shopping.com and Skype. On a sequential basis, net revenues increased 1% and were positively impacted by foreign currency translation in Q2-06 by approximately $27 million.
GAAP gross profit of $1.118 billion in Q2-06, was 79% of net revenues, lower than the 82% reported in Q2-05. Excluding stock-based compensation of $8 million, gross profit would have been $1.126 billion, or 80% of net revenues in Q2-06. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues was lower primarily due to the inclusion of eBay's Communications segment in Q2-06.
GAAP sales and marketing expenses totaled $398 million, or 28% of net revenues, higher than the 26% reported in Q2-05. Excluding stock-based compensation of $27 million, sales and marketing expenses totaled $371 million in Q2-06, or 26% of net revenues consistent with the 26% reported in Q2-05.
GAAP product development expenses totaled $124 million, or 9% of net revenues, up from the 7% reported in Q2-05. Excluding stock-based compensation of $23 million, product development expenses totaled $101 million in Q2-06, or 7% of net revenues, consistent with the 7% reported in Q2-05.
GAAP general and administrative expenses totaled $223 million, or 16% of net revenues, up from the 12% reported in Q2-05. Excluding stock-based compensation of $28 million, general and administrative costs totaled $195 million in Q2-06, or 14% of net revenues. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased year-over-year primarily due to increased investment in consumer protection programs.
GAAP operating income decreased 18% year over year to $311 million, or 22% of net revenues. Excluding stock-based compensation of $85 million, operating income would have increased 5% year over year to $397 million, or 28% of net revenues. Non-GAAP operating income increased 13% year over year to $460 million, or 33% of net revenues. On a sequential basis, GAAP operating income decreased 3% and was positively impacted by foreign currency translation in Q2-06 of approximately $13 million.
Interest and other income, net, totaled $26 million in Q2-06, down from the $33 million reported in Q2-05. The decrease was primarily attributable to a loss realized upon settlement of foreign exchange hedging contracts, offset by higher interest income due to higher interest rates.
The GAAP effective tax rate for Q2-06 was 26%, a decrease from 29% for Q2-05 and Q1-06. The non-GAAP effective tax rate in Q2-06 was 28%, a decrease from 30% for Q2-05 and from 29% for Q1-06. The lower GAAP and non-GAAP effective tax rates for Q2-06, as compared to Q2-05 and Q1-06, result primarily from shifts in the company's forecasted geographic mix of business.
 
eBay Announces Q2-06 Financial Results (cont.)
Net income decreased 14% year over year to $250 million, or $0.17 per diluted share. Excluding stock-based compensation of $60 million (net of tax effects), or $0.04 per diluted share, net income would have increased 6% year over year to $310 million, or $0.22 per diluted share. Non-GAAP net income increased 14% year over year to $351 million, or $0.24 per diluted share.
GAAP operating cash flows increased 4% year over year to $516 million. Free cash flows, representing operating cash flows less net purchases of property and equipment of $148 million, decreased 10% year over year to $367 million.
Stock Repurchase Program
eBay's Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of the company's common stock within the next two years. The stock repurchase program may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. Stock repurchases under this program may be made through open market and privately negotiated transactions at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded using the company's working capital. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including corporate and regulatory requirements, price and other market conditions. The program will be designed to comply with the volume, timing and other limitations set forth in Rule 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Business Outlook
The following updated guidance is based on a weighted average exchange rate of US $1.20 per Euro, which is consistent with prior guidance. The guidance includes the estimated impact of expensing stock options from the adoption of FAS 123(R), which has been reflected in eBay's operating results beginning in Q1-06.
Net Revenues  eBay expects consolidated net revenues for 2006 to be in the range of $5.700 billion to $5.900 billion. eBay expects consolidated net revenues to be in the range of $1.355 to $1.430 billion in Q3-06.
GAAP Diluted EPS  eBay estimates GAAP earnings per diluted share for the full year 2006 to be in the range of $0.69 to $0.72. eBay estimates GAAP earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $0.15 to $0.17 in Q3-06. The estimated GAAP earnings per diluted share includes the estimated impact of stock-based compensation from the adoption of FAS 123(R) of approximately $0.16 to $0.17 for the full year ending December 31, 2006 and $0.04 to $0.05 for each of the quarters in the year ending December 31, 2006.
Non-GAAP Diluted EPS  eBay estimates non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for the full year 2006 to be in the range of $0.98 to $1.01. eBay estimates non-GAAP earnings per diluted share to be in the range of $0.22 to $0.23 in Q3-06.
Quarterly Conference Call
eBay will host a conference call to discuss second quarter results at 2 pm Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations website at http://investor.ebay.com. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible through the same link.
 
eBay Announces Q2-06 Financial Results (cont.)
Non-GAAP Measures
To supplement the company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flows as well as GAAP amounts excluding the impact of stock-based compensation and the corresponding percentages of net revenues. eBay makes reference to measures of operating income, gross profit, certain expenses (including cost of net revenues, sales and marketing, product development, and general and administrative), net income and earnings per share for Q2-06, which exclude stock-based compensation to allow for a better comparison of results in the current period to those in prior periods that did not include FAS 123(R) stock-based compensation. eBay's reference to these measures should be considered in addition to results that are prepared under current accounting standards but should not be considered a substitute for results that are presented as consistent with GAAP. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future and provide further information for comparative information due to the adoption of the new accounting standard FAS 123(R). Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses, and net purchases of property and equipment that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook.
In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting. The company believes the non-GAAP measures that exclude stock-based compensation enhance the comparability of results against prior periods. These measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP results. Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in this press release can be found in the financial tables included on pages 8, 9, 10, 11 and 16 of this press release. For non-GAAP measures that solely exclude stock-based compensation, the reconciliation to GAAP is presented in narrative form in this release when the non-GAAP measure is referenced.
 
eBay Announces Q2-06 Financial Results (cont.)
About eBay Inc.
Founded in 1995, eBay pioneers communities built on commerce, sustained by trust, and inspired by opportunity. eBay enables ecommerce on a local, national and international basis with an array of websites  including the eBay Marketplaces, PayPal, Skype, Kijiji, Rent.com and Shopping.com  that bring together millions of buyers and sellers every day.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries, as well as the estimated impact of expensing stock options under FAS 123(R) "Share-Based Payment" effective in Q1-06. Those statements involve risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users as well as from new users in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive ecommerce environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; the impact of the company's recently announced pricing and product changes; the need to integrate, manage, and profitably expand its recently-acquired businesses; the need to manage an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity; the regulatory and competitive risks specific to Skype; the litigation, regulatory, credit card association, and other risks specific to PayPal, especially as it continues to expand geographically; the company's need to manage other regulatory, tax, and litigation risks as its product offerings expand and its services are offered in more jurisdictions; the company's ability to upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth at a reasonable cost; the company's ability to maintain site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the company's ability to profitably expand its model to new types of merchandise and sellers; assumptions and methods used to value and expense stock options provided to employees; and, the company's ability to profitably integrate and manage recent and future acquisitions and other transactions. The forward looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions that may be completed after the date hereof.
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations site at http://investor.ebay.com. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
 
 
 
:
Notes
(a)    Stock-based compensation
(b)    Employer payroll taxes on employee non-qualified stock option gains
(c)    Amortization of acquired intangible assets
(d)    Gain on sale of equity investment
(e)    Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP entries
 
:
Notes
(a)    Stock-based compensation
(b)    Employer payroll taxes on employee non-qualified stock option gains
(c)    Amortization of acquired intangible assets
(d)    Gain on sale of equity investment
(e)    Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP entries
 
 
Net Revenues by Type
 
Net Revenues by Segment
Net Revenues by Geography
 
Rent.com, Shopping.com, and our classifieds websites are not included in these metrics.
 
 
 
 
The guidance figures provided below and elsewhere in this press release are approximate in nature because eBay's future performance is difficult to predict. Such guidance is based on information available on the date hereof, and eBay assumes no obligation to update it.
eBay's future performance involves risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from such guidance. Some of the factors that could affect the company's operating results are set forth under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" above in this press release. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations site at http://investor.ebay.com.
 


