FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20070803085953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Form 8-K
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 14a-12
240.14a-12)
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 14d-2(b)
240.14d-2(b))
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 13e-4(c)
240.13e-4(c))
 
Table of Contents
 
 
On August 2, 2007, eBay Inc. ("eBay"), as borrower, entered into an Amendment Agreement (the "Amendment Agreement") to its Credit Agreement dated as of November 7, 2006 (the "Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "Agent"); certain lenders named therein; Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Syndication Agent; and Banc of America Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Book Managers. The Amendment Agreement amends the Credit Agreement to (i) increase the lender commitments and borrowing capacity under the Credit Agreement from its existing level of $1 billion to $2 billion, (ii) permit an additional increase option of $1 billion (after giving effect to the $1 billion increase described above in clause (i)), (iii) extend the maturity date by an additional year to November 7, 2012, (iv) revise the pricing grid and (v) amend the maximum leverage ratio.
 
Funds borrowed under the Credit Agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes of eBay and its subsidiaries. eBay entered into the Credit Agreement in order to enhance its financial flexibility.
 
The foregoing description does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on and is incorporated herein by reference.
Form 8-K
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
eBay Inc.
(Registrant)
 
/s/  Brian H. Levey
Name: Brian H. Levey
Corporate and Assistant Secretary
 
Date: August 3, 2007
Table of Contents
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
Execution Copy
 
Published CUSIP Number: 278645AA4
 
 
 
 
 
This AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (this "") is entered into as of August 2, 2007 among EBAY INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the several financial institutions party hereto (each a "" and, collectively, the ""), and BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Amendment
Borrower
Lender
Lenders
 
The Borrower, the Lenders party thereto and the Administrative Agent entered into a Credit Agreement dated as of November 7, 2006 (as in effect as of the date of this Amendment, the "").
Credit Agreement
 
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders agree to certain amendments to the Credit Agreement, and the Lenders have agreed to such request, subject to the terms and conditions of this Amendment.
 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
 
1.  
.
Definitions; References; Interpretation
 
(a) Unless otherwise specifically defined herein, each term used herein (including in the Recitals hereof) which is defined in the Credit Agreement shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Credit Agreement.
 
(b) As used herein, "" means this Amendment, the Notes to be delivered hereunder and the Credit Agreement (as amended by this Amendment).
Amendment Documents
 
(c) Each reference to "", "", "", "" and "" and each other similar reference contained in the Credit Agreement, and each reference to "" and each other similar reference in the other Loan Documents, shall from and after the Effective Date (as defined in ) refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
this Agreement
hereof
hereunder
herein
hereby
the Credit Agreement
Section 2
 
(d) The rules of interpretation set forth in of the Credit Agreement shall be applicable to this Amendment.
Section 1.02
 
2.    Subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Credit Agreement is amended as follows, effective as of the date of satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 4 (the ""):
.
Amendments to Credit Agreement
Effective Date
 
(a)  
.
Amendments to Article I of the Credit Agreement
 
(1) The term "" defined in of the Credit Agreement shall include from and after the Effective Date the Notes delivered under this Amendment.
Notes
Section 1.01
 
(2) The definition of "" in of the Credit Agreement is amended in its entirety to provide as follows:
Applicable Rate
Section 1.01
 
"" means the following percentages per annum, based upon the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received by the Administrative Agent pursuant to :
Applicable Rate
Section 6.02(a)
 
 
Any increase or decrease in the Applicable Rate resulting from a change in the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to ; , , that if a Compliance Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then Pricing Level 5 shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate
Section 6.02(a)
provided
however
 
was required to have been delivered, and shall continue to so apply through the date on which such Compliance Certificate is so delivered (and thereafter the Pricing Level otherwise determined in accordance with this definition shall apply). The Applicable Rate in effect from as of the Closing Date shall be determined based upon Pricing Level 1."
 
(3) The definition of "" in of the Credit Agreement is amended in its entirety to provide as follows:
Maturity Date
Section 1.01
 
"" means the later of (a) November 7, 2012 and (b) if maturity is extended pursuant to , such extended maturity date as determined pursuant to such Section; , , that, in each case, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day."
Maturity Date
Section 2.12
provided
however
 
(b)     of the Credit Agreement is replaced in its entirety by of this Amendment.
.
Amendment to Schedule 2.01 of the Credit Agreement
Schedule 2.01
Schedule 2.01
 
(c)  
.
Amendments to Article II of the Credit Agreement
 
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Credit Agreement, after the Effective Date the Borrower shall be permitted only one additional extension request under of the Credit Agreement.
Section 2.12
 
(2) After giving effect to the increases in the Aggregate Commitments to $2,000,000,000 occurring on the Effective Date, the Borrower may again utilize the increase option pursuant to of the Credit Agreement to request from time to time an increase in the Aggregate Commitments by an amount (for all such requests after the Effective Date) not exceeding $1,000,000,000, in accordance with the terms and conditions of said .
Section 2.13
Section 2.13
 
(d)     of the Credit Agreement is amended in its entirety to provide as follows:
.
Amendment to Article VII of the Credit Agreement
Section 7.06
 
"7.06 The Borrower shall not permit its Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as determined as of the end of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower, to be greater than 3:00 to 1:00."
Financial Covenant.
 
(e)     of the Credit Agreement is replaced in its entirety by attached to this Amendment.
.
Amendment to Exhibit C of the Credit Agreement
Exhibit C
Annex I
 
3.    The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as follows:
.
Representations and Warranties
 
(a) No Default has occurred and is continuing (or would result from the amendments of the Credit Agreement contemplated hereby).
 
(b) The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Amendment Documents have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and other action and do not and will not require any registration with, consent or approval of, or notice to or action by, any Person (including any Governmental Authority) in order to be effective and enforceable.
 
(c) The Amendment Documents constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against it in accordance with their respective terms, subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, arrangement, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to the application of general principles of equity.
 
(d) All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in the Credit Agreement that are qualified by materiality are true and correct and after giving effect thereto, and that are not qualified by materiality are true and correct in all material respects (except, in each case, to the extent such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that (i) for purposes of this the representations and warranties contained in subsections (a) and (b) of of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses (a) and (b), respectively, of of the Credit Agreement, and
Section 3(d)
Section 5.05
Section 6.01
 
(ii) this shall take into account any amendments to the Schedules to the Credit Agreement and other disclosures made in writing by the Borrower to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders after the Closing Date and approved by the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders).
Section 3(d)
 
(e) The Borrower is entering into this Amendment on the basis of its own investigation and for its own reasons, without reliance upon the Administrative Agent and the Lenders or any other Person.
 
4.  
.
Conditions of Effectiveness
 
(a) The effectiveness of of this Amendment shall be subject to the satisfaction of each of the following conditions precedent:
Section 2
 
(1) The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Borrower and each of the Lenders (i) a duly executed original (or, if elected by the Administrative Agent, an executed facsimile copy) of this Amendment ; and (ii) if requested by any Lender, a Note (or replacement Note) substantially in the form of to the Credit Agreement.
Exhibit B
 
(2) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence of payment by the Borrower of all fees, costs and expenses due and payable as of the Effective Date hereunder and under the Credit Agreement, including any fees arising under or referenced in of this Amendment and any costs and expenses payable under of this Amendment (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, to the extent invoiced on or prior to the Effective Date).
Section 5
Section 7(g)
 
(3) The Administrative Agent shall have received from the Borrower, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, a copy of resolutions passed by the board of directors (or related committee thereof) of the Borrower, certified as of the Effective Date by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of such Person, authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of the Amendment Documents.
 
(4) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable opinion of counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Agent and each Lender, with respect to this Amendment, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent.
 
(5) The Administrative Agent shall have received documentation in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to it evidencing the increase of the Aggregate Commitments to $2,000,000,000, including Commitment Increase Agreements from any existing Lenders increasing their Commitments, and New Lender Agreements from any Eligible Assignees acceding to the Credit Agreement.
 
(6) The Administrative Agent shall have received all other documents it may reasonably request relating to any matters relevant hereto, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
 
(7) The representations and warranties in of this Amendment shall be true and correct on and as of the Effective Date with the same effect as if made on and as of the Effective Date.
Section 3
 
(b) For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in , each Lender that has signed this Amendment shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the Effective Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 4(a)
 
(c) From and after the Effective Date, the Credit Agreement is amended as set forth herein, and all outstanding Notes under the Credit Agreement shall be superseded and replaced by the Notes delivered under this Amendment. All such previously outstanding Notes will be deemed cancelled upon the occurrence of the Effective Date. Except as expressly amended pursuant hereto, the Credit Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
 
(d) The Administrative Agent will notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the occurrence of the Effective Date.
 
5.    The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each of the Lenders or Eligible Assignees participating in the increase in the Aggregate Commitments the fees set forth in (i) that certain
.
Fees
 
letter agreement dated as of July 20, 2007, by and among the Borrower, BAS and the Administrative Agent (the "") and (ii) that certain letter agreement dated as of July 24, 2007, by and between the Borrower and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (the ""). Such fees shall be due and payable by the Borrower on the date set forth in such letter agreement.
BAS Amendment Fee Letter
Wells Fargo Amendment Fee Letter
 
6.  
Certain Transitional Matters.
 
(a) The increases in the Aggregate Commitments to $2,000,000,000 under of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed effective as of the Effective Date.
Section 2.13
 
(b) On the Effective Date, the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement, as amended and restated hereby, shall be the Lenders listed on the signature pages hereof and any Eligible Assignees acceding to the Credit Agreement and shall have the respective Commitments in the amounts set forth in attached hereto. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, on the Effective Date, any Lenders party to the Credit Agreement not listed on the signature pages hereof shall cease to be parties to the Credit Agreement, and each Eligible Assignee party to a New Lender Agreement not previously party to the Credit Agreement shall be and become a party to the Credit Agreement as provided in its New Lender Agreement with a Commitment in the amount set forth therein.
Schedule 2.01
 
(c) If any Loans shall be outstanding on the Effective Date, the Borrower shall be deemed to have submitted a notice of Borrowing to any Eligible Assignees acceding to the Credit Agreement in the appropriate aggregate amount to ensure that such Loans are outstanding to the existing Lenders and acceding Lenders as of the Effective Date in accordance with their Applicable Percentages as reflected in attached hereto.
Schedule 2.01
 
(d) On the Effective Date, the amount of Loans (if any) then outstanding and held by each existing Lender shall be adjusted to reflect the changes in such Lenders' Applicable Percentages of the Loans, subject to of the Credit Agreement. Each such Lender having any Loans then outstanding and whose Applicable Percentage in respect of Loans has been decreased on the Effective Date as a result of the increase in the Aggregate Commitments occurring under of the Credit Agreement on the Effective Date shall be deemed to have assigned on the Effective Date, without recourse, to each Lender increasing its Commitment and Eligible Assignees acceding to the Credit Agreement on the Effective Date such portion of such Loans as shall be necessary to effectuate such adjustment. Each such increasing Lender or acceding Lender on the Effective Date shall (i) be deemed to have assumed such portion of such Loans and (ii) fund on the Effective Date such assumed amounts to the Administrative Agent for the account of the assigning Lender in the amount notified to such increasing Lender by the Administrative Agent.
Section 3.05
Section 2.13
 
(e) On the Effective Date any Eligible Assignees acceding to the Credit Agreement as a result of the increases in the Aggregate Commitments to $2,000,000,000 under of the Credit Agreement shall fund to the Borrower their respective Loans, if any, as requested by the Borrower from them prior to the Effective Date.
Section 2.13
 
7.  
Miscellaneous.
 
(a) The Borrower acknowledges and agrees that the execution and delivery by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders of this Amendment shall not be deemed to create a course of dealing or an obligation to execute similar waivers or amendments under the same or similar circumstances in the future.
 
(b) This Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted by the Credit Agreement.
 
(c) THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
(d) This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Amendment and the other Amendment Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Amendment shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto.
Section 4
 
Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by facsimile shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
 
(e) This Amendment may not be amended except in accordance with the provisions of of the Credit Agreement.
Section 10.01
 
(f) If any provision of this Amendment or the other Amendment Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (i) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Amendment and the other Amendment Documents and Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (ii) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
(g) The Borrower agrees to pay or reimburse all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Amendment and the other Amendment Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated).
 
(h) This Amendment, the BAS Amendment Fee Letter, the Wells Fargo Amendment Fee Letter and the Notes, and any new lender agreements or commitment increase agreements executed pursuant to this Amendment shall constitute Loan Documents.
 
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
EBAY INC.
 
Name: Jennifer Ceran
 
as Administrative Agent
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
 
Name: Dora A. Brown
 
as a Lender
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
 
Name: Ronald J. Drobny
 
as a Lender
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.,
 
Name: William P. Rindfuss
 
as a Lender
WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A.,
 
Name: Matt Jurgens
 
(Recourse only to assets of William Street Corporation), as a Lender
WILLIAM STREET COMMITMENT CORPORATION
 
Name: Mark Walton
 
as a Lender
MORGAN STANLEY BANK,
 
Name: Elizabeth Hendricks
 
as a Lender
HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
 
Name: Scott Regan
 
as a Lender
CITIBANK N.A.,
 
Name: Brian Reed
 
as a Lender
CREDIT SUISSE, CAYMAN ISLANDS BRANCH,
 
Name: Jay Chall
 
Name: Alain Schmid
 
as a Lender
DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH,
 
Name: Oliver Schwarz
 
Name: Stefan Freckmann
 
as a Lender
LEHMAN BROTHERS COMMERCIAL BANK,
 
Name: Brian McNany
 
as a Lender
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC,
 
Name: Vincent Fitzgerald
 
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
 
To: Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is made to that certain Credit Agreement, dated as of November 7, 2006, as amended (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among eBay Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
 
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that is the           of the Borrower, and that, as such, is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
he/she
he/she
 
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal financial statements]
year-end
 
1. The Borrower has delivered the year-end audited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Section 6.01(a)
 
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal financial statements]
quarter-end
 
1. The Borrower has delivered the unaudited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Section 6.01(b)
 
2. To the best knowledge of the undersigned:
 
 
[during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.]
 
 
[during such fiscal period, the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
 
3. Except as described on an attachment hereto, the representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in of the Agreement (other than the representation and warranty contained in ) and any representations and warranties of the Borrower that are contained in any other Loan Document that are qualified by materiality are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, and that are not qualified by materiality are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct as of such earlier date, and except that for purposes of this Compliance Certificate, the representations and warranties contained in and of of the Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to and , respectively, of of the Agreement, including the statements in connection with which this Compliance Certificate is delivered.
Article V
Section 5.05(c)
subsections (a)
(b)
Section 5.05
clauses (a)
(b)
Section 6.01
 
4. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on and attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedules 1
2
 
the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of          ,      .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
EBAY INC.
 
Name: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


