FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20071017170017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Form 8-K
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 14a-12
240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 14d-2(b)
240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 13e-4(c)
240.13e-4(c))
 
Table of Contents
 
 
The information in this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing by eBay Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
 
On October 17, 2007, eBay Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. A copy of eBay's press release announcing its financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Operating Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate," "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow," and "Business Outlook" included in the attached press release for further information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures and an explanation of why eBay includes these non-GAAP measures.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to eBay's future performance. A more thorough discussion of certain factors that may affect eBay's actual results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in eBay's Annual Report on and Quarterly Reports on Additional information will be included under those captions in eBay's Quarterly Report on for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, which will be filed with the SEC during the fourth quarter of 2007.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q.
Form 10-Q
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
99.1 Press release dated October 17, 2007.
Table of Contents
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
San Jose, Calif, October 17, 2007  eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY; www.ebay.com) reported financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2007.
 
eBay reported record consolidated Q3-07 net revenues of $1.89 billion, representing a year-over-year growth rate of 30%. GAAP operating loss was $938 million in Q3-07, representing (50%) of net revenues, compared to GAAP operating income of $339 million in Q3-06. GAAP net loss in Q3-07 was $936 million, or $0.69 loss per diluted share. Both the GAAP operating loss and GAAP net loss were the result of the previously announced goodwill impairment charge related to eBay's acquisition of Skype.
 
Non-GAAP operating income was $593 million, representing a year-over-year increase of 28% and 31% of net revenues. Non-GAAP net income was $564 million, or $0.41 earnings per diluted share, representing a year-over-year increase of 53%.
 
The company purchased approximately 14.8 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of approximately $500 million during the quarter out of its authorized stock repurchase program of up to $2 billion by January 2009.
 
"During the quarter we made significant progress against our business unit strategies which resulted in record net revenues of $1.89 billion, a 30% year-over-year increase," said eBay President and CEO, Meg Whitman. "eBay International, PayPal Merchant Services, StubHub, classifieds and our advertising businesses all performed above our expectations."
 
Q3 Business Unit Discussion
 
Marketplaces
 
Overall, eBay's Marketplaces business had a strong quarter, with strong top-line growth and profitability. The company continues to make significant investments aimed at its core business as well as growing its newer businesses.
 
Marketplaces net revenues totaled a record $1.32 billion in Q3-07, representing a year-over-year growth rate of 26%. eBay's users posted a total of 556 million listings in Q3-07 representing a year-over-year decrease of 5%. These listings generated Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) of $14.40 billion in Q3-07, representing a year-over-year increase of 14%.
 
Payments
 
PayPal posted another excellent quarter of Total Payment Volume (TPV) and revenue growth, primarily driven by its Merchant Services business, with acceleration in both.
 
PayPal net revenues totaled a record $470 million in Q3-07, representing a year-over-year growth rate of 35%. Global TPV was $12.22 billion in Q3-07, representing a year-over-year increase of 34%. PayPal Merchant Services contributed $5.38 billion globally to the $12.22 billion in global TPV in Q3-07, representing a year-over-year increase of 61%.
 
Communications
 
Skype delivered a third consecutive quarter of segment profitability, excluding the goodwill impairment charge of $1.39 billion. Geographically, all three major regions, Europe, North America and Asia exhibited robust revenue growth.
 
Skype net revenues totaled a record $98 million in Q3-07, representing a year-over-year growth rate of 96%. Skype had 246 million registered user accounts at the end of Q3-07, representing a year-over-year increase of 81%.
 
Other selected financial results
 
Operating Margin  GAAP operating margin was (50%) in Q3-07, compared to 23% in Q3-06 due to the goodwill impairment charge of $1.39 billion. Non-GAAP operating margin decreased to 31.4% in Q3-07 from 32.1% in Q3-06. The decrease in non-GAAP operating margin is primarily the result of faster growth from our lower margin businesses, primarily PayPal and Skype, mostly offset by productivity gains.
 
Taxes  The GAAP effective tax rate for Q3-07 was (4%), compared to 26% for Q3-06 and 23% in Q2-07. The non-GAAP effective tax rate in Q3-07 was 10%, which was a decrease from 27% for Q3-06 and 25% in Q2-07 primarily due to a tax benefit from a ruling issued by a tax authority related to prior periods resulting in a favorable impact of 8 percentage points and the remaining decrease was due to changes in the estimated geographic mix of the company's taxable income for the year.
 
Cash Flows  GAAP operating cash flows increased to $629 million in Q3-07. Free cash flow increased to $510 million in Q3-07.
 
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments  The company's cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled $4.44 billion at the end of Q3-07.
 
"Our third quarter results reflect strong revenue growth, even stronger non-GAAP earnings growth, and excellent free cash flow. With strong financial performance in each of the three quarters of the year, we approach the remainder of the year focused on the execution of our business plan and confident in our ability to deliver strong full-year revenue and earnings growth," said Bob Swan, Chief Financial Officer, eBay Inc.
 
Business Outlook
 
Fourth Quarter 2007  eBay expects consolidated net revenues for Q4-07 to be in the range of $2.100 billion to $2.150 billion. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for Q4-07 are expected to be in the range of $0.39 to $0.41. These amounts assume a US dollar to Euro exchange rate of $1.38.
 
Full Year 2007  eBay now expects consolidated net revenues for 2007 to be in the range of $7.600 billion to $7.650 billion. Non-GAAP operating margin for 2007 is expected to be approximately 33%. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for 2007 are now expected to be in the range of $1.47 to $1.49. These amounts assume a Q4-07 US dollar to Euro exchange rate of $1.38 and actual rates through the first three quarters of 2007.
 
Quarterly Conference Call
 
eBay will host a conference call to discuss third quarter results at 2 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call, together with a slide presentation that includes supplemental financial information and reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations website at http://investor.ebay.com. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible through the same link.
 
About eBay Inc.
 
Founded in 1995, eBay Inc. connects hundreds of millions of people around the world every day, empowering them to explore new opportunities and innovate together. eBay Inc. does this by providing the Internet platforms of choice for global commerce, payments and communications. Since its inception, eBay Inc. has expanded to include some of the strongest brands in the world, including eBay, PayPal, Skype, Shopping.com, and others. eBay Inc. is headquartered in San Jose, California.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC): non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For a reconciliation of other non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures, see "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Operating Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income (Loss) to Non-GAAP Net Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate," "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow" and "Business Outlook" included in this press release.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; the need to manage an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity and in many different geographies; the regulatory, patent, competitive and other risks specific to Skype; the competitive, regulatory, credit card association, and other risks specific to PayPal, especially as it continues to expand geographically; the company's need to manage other regulatory, tax, and litigation risks as its product offerings expand, its services are offered in more jurisdictions and applicable laws become more restrictive; the company's ability to upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth at a reasonable cost; the company's ability to maintain site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the company's ability to profitably expand its business model to new types of merchandise and sellers; assumptions and methods used to value and expense stock options provided to employees; and, the company's ability to profitably integrate, manage and grow businesses that have been acquired recently or may be acquired in the future. The forward-looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions that may be announced completed after the date hereof.
e-commerce
and/or
 
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's annual report on and quarterly reports on copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations website at http://investor.ebay.com or the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Segment
 
 
Net Revenues by Geography
 
 
 
 
 
Rent.com, Shopping.com, and eBay's classifieds websites are not included in these metrics.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The guidance figures provided below and elsewhere in this press release are approximate in nature because eBay's future performance is difficult to predict. Such guidance is based on information available on the date hereof, and eBay assumes no obligation to update it.
 
eBay's future performance involves risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from the information below. Some of the factors that could affect the company's operating results are set forth under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" above in this press release. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its most recent annual report on and quarterly reports on copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations website at http://investor.ebay.com or the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q,
 
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement the company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow.
 
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with eBay's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate eBay's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
 
Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in this press release can be found in the tables included on page 12, 14 and 15 of this press release.
 
These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future. Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses, and net purchases of property and equipment that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting.
 
For its internal budgeting process, and as discussed further below, eBay's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, employer payroll taxes on employee non-qualified stock option gains, amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets and the income taxes associated with the foregoing. In addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, eBay's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing the financial results of eBay.
 
eBay excludes the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate:
 
These expenses consist of expenses for stock options and employee stock purchases under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment." eBay excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that eBay does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results.
Stock-based compensation related to stock options and employee stock purchases.  
 
  This amount is dependent on eBay's stock price and the timing and size of exercise by employees of their stock options, over which management has virtually no control, and as such does not correlate to eBay's operation of the business.
Employer payroll taxes on employee non-qualified stock option gains.
 
eBay incurs amortization or impairments of acquired intangible assets in connection with acquisitions and investments. eBay excludes these items because they arise from eBay's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the current operating results of eBay's business.
Amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets and impairment of goodwill.  
 
  This amount is used to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP entries.
 
In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, eBay also uses free cash flow. Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less net purchases of property and equipment. eBay considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property, buildings, and equipment, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in eBay's business, make strategic acquisitions, strengthen the balance sheet and repurchase stock. A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the company's cash balance for the period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


