FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20070418164545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Form 8-K
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 14a-12
240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 14d-2(b)
240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to under the Exchange Act (17 CFR
o
Rule 13e-4(c)
240.13e-4(c))
 
Table of Contents
 
Item 2.02.  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The information in this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing by eBay Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
 
On April 18, 2007, eBay Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of eBay's press release announcing its financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flows. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Net Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate," "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow to Free Cash Flow" and "Business Outlook" included in the attached press release for further information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures and an explanation of why we include these non-GAAP measures.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to eBay's future performance. A more thorough discussion of certain factors that may affect eBay's actual results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in eBay's Annual Report on and Quarterly Reports on Additional information will be included under those captions in eBay's Quarterly Report on for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, which will be filed with the SEC during the second quarter of 2007.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q.
Form 10-Q
 
Item 9.01.  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
99.1  Press release dated April 18, 2007.
Table of Contents
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
(Registrant)
eBay Inc.
 
/s/  Michael R. Jacobson
Name: Michael R. Jacobson
General Counsel and Secretary
 
Date: April 18, 2007
Table of Contents
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
San Jose, Calif, April 18, 2007  eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY; www.ebay.com) reported financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2007.
 
eBay reported record consolidated Q1-07 net revenues of $1.77 billion, representing a growth rate of 27% year over year. GAAP operating income was $468 million, an increase of 45% year over year, and represented 26.5% of net revenues. Non-GAAP operating income in Q1-07 was $593 million, representing a 33.6% operating margin and a 29% increase.
year-over-year
 
GAAP net income in Q1-07 increased 52% year over year to $377 million, or $0.27 earnings per diluted share. Non-GAAP net income increased 34% year over year to $460 million, or $0.33 earnings per diluted share. GAAP and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share increased 59% and 39% year over year, respectively.
 
The company purchased approximately 10 million shares of its common stock at a total cost of approximately $333 million during the quarter and may purchase up to an additional $2.0 billion of common stock through January 2009 under its stock repurchase program.
 
"This first quarter of 2007 was a very strong one for the company," said eBay Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer, Meg Whitman. "The strength of our core businesses, as well as the significant traction we're beginning to see across our newer businesses, helped us deliver great results across the board."
 
Q1 Business Unit Discussion
 
Marketplaces
 
Our Marketplaces business had another solid quarter, highlighted by good conversion rates and ASPs, and great results from our Merchandise Volume (GMV) driven businesses, which include Shopping.com, Rent.com and our Classifieds portfolio.
non-Gross
 
Marketplaces net revenues totaled a record $1.25 billion in Q1-07, a growth rate of 23% over the $1.02 billion reported in Q1-06. The eBay platform confirmed registered user base at the end of Q1-07 totaled 233 million, representing a 21% increase over the 193 million registered users reported at the end of Q1-06.
 
eBay's users generated a total of 588 million listings in Q1-07, 2% higher than the 575 million listings reported in Q1-06. These listings led to eBay GMV of $14.28 billion in Q1-07, representing a 14% increase from the $12.50 billion reported in Q1-06.
year-over-year
 
Payments
 
PayPal had a excellent quarter, with robust Total Payment Volume (TPV) growth, driven by increased eBay penetration around the world and another outstanding performance from its Merchant Services business.
 
PayPal net revenues totaled $439 million in Q1-07, a growth rate of 31% over the $335 million reported in Q1-06. PayPal had 143 million total accounts at the end of Q1-07, a 36% increase from the 105 million reported at the end of Q1-06. Those accounts helped drive record TPV of $11.36 billion in Q1-07, a 30% increase from the $8.77 billion reported in Q1-06.
 
PayPal Merchant Services contributed a record $4.38 billion to the $11.36 billion in global TPV in Q1-07, representing a 51% increase from the $2.91 billion reported in Q1-06.
 
Communications
 
Q1-07 was a very productive quarter for Skype, with continued momentum in user growth, and the launch of several new products intended to build community engagement and fuel Skype monetization over time.
 
 
Skype net revenues totaled $79 million in Q1-07, a growth rate of 123% over the $35 million reported in Q1-06.
 
Skype had 196 million registered users at the end of Q1-07, representing a 107% increase from the 95 million users at the end of Q1-06.
 
Other selected financial results
 
Operating Margin  GAAP operating margin increased to 26.5% in Q1-07, up from 23.2% in Q1-06. Non-GAAP operating margin increased to 33.6% in Q1-07, from 33.1% in Q1-06. The increase in non-GAAP operating margin is the result of continued expense leverage and productivity and the benefit of a weaker US dollar, which was offset by the negative gross margin mix impact coming from our higher growth, lower margin businesses of PayPal and Skype.
year-over-year
 
Taxes  The GAAP effective tax rate for Q1-07 was 24%, which was a decrease from 29% for Q1-06 and 28% in Q4-06. The non-GAAP effective tax rate in Q1-07 was 26%, which was a decrease from 29% for Q1-06 and Q4-06. The lower tax rates in Q1-07 resulted primarily from expansion of our international operations and tax regulations affecting the allocation of costs to our international businesses. During Q1-07, the company implemented Financial Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes" which resulted in a reclassification of certain tax liabilities from current to non-current on the balance sheet and had no impact on net income.
 
Cash Flows  GAAP operating cash flows decreased 3% year over year to $564 million in Q1-07. Free cash flow increased to $479 million in Q1-07 compared to $451 million in Q1-06.
 
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments  The company's cash, cash equivalents, and investments totaled approximately $3.50 billion at the end of Q1-07.
 
"Our Q1 results reflect a strong start to 2007," said Bob Swan, chief financial officer, eBay Inc. "We delivered solid revenue growth, expanded operating margins and strong earnings and free cash flow, while deploying capital to strengthen our business with our acquisition of StubHub and our continued share repurchase program."
 
Business Outlook
 
Second Quarter 2007  eBay expects consolidated net revenues for Q2 2007 to be in the range of $1.750 billion to $1.800 billion. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for Q2 2007 are expected to be in the range of $0.31 to $0.33. These amounts assume a US dollar to Euro exchange rate of $1.30.
 
Full Year 2007  eBay now expects consolidated net revenues for 2007 to be in the range of $7.200 billion to $7.450 billion. Non-GAAP operating margin for 2007 is expected to be 33%. Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share for 2007 are now expected to be in the range of $1.30 to $1.34. These amounts assume a US dollar to Euro exchange rate of $1.30.
 
Quarterly Conference Call
 
eBay will host a conference call to discuss first quarter results at 2 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call, together with a slide presentation which includes supplemental financial information and reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations website at http://investor.ebay.com. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible through the same link.
 
About eBay Inc.
 
Founded in 1995, eBay Inc. connects hundreds of millions of people around the world every day, empowering them to explore new opportunities and innovate together. eBay Inc. does this by providing the Internet platforms of choice for global commerce, payments and communications. Since its inception, eBay Inc. has expanded to include some of the strongest brands in the world, including eBay, PayPal, Skype, Shopping.com, and others. eBay Inc. is headquartered in San Jose, California.
 
Non-GAAP Measures
 
This press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flows. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Operating Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Net Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-
 
GAAP Effective Tax Rate," "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow to Free Cash Flow" and "Business Outlook" included in this press release for further information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries. These statements involve risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users as well as from new users in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; the need to manage an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity and in many different geographies; the regulatory, patent, and competitive risks specific to Skype; the competitive, regulatory, credit card association, and other risks specific to PayPal, especially as it continues to expand geographically; the company's need to manage other regulatory, tax, and litigation risks as its product offerings expand and its services are offered in more jurisdictions; the company's ability to upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth at a reasonable cost; the company's ability to maintain site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the company's ability to profitably expand its model to new types of merchandise and sellers; assumptions and methods used to value and expense stock options provided to employees; and, the company's ability to profitably integrate, manage and grow recent and future acquisitions and other transactions. The forward looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions that may be announced completed after the date hereof.
e-commerce
and/or
 
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's annual report on and quarterly reports on copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations website at http://investor.ebay.com or the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Type
 
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Segment
 
 
Net Revenues by Geography
 
 
 
 
 
Rent.com, Shopping.com, and our classifieds websites are not included in these metrics.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The guidance figures provided below and elsewhere in this press release are approximate in nature because eBay's future performance is difficult to predict. Such guidance is based on information available on the date hereof, and eBay assumes no obligation to update it.
 
eBay's future performance involves risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from the information below. Some of the factors that could affect the company's operating results are set forth under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" above in this press release. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its most recent annual report on and quarterly reports on copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations website at http://investor.ebay.com or the SEC's website at www.sec.gov.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q,
 
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement the company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flows.
 
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with eBay's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate eBay's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
 
Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in this press release can be found in the tables included on page 12, 14 and 15 of this press release.
 
These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future. Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses, and net purchases of property and equipment that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting.
 
For its internal budgeting process, and as discussed further below, eBay's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases, employer payroll taxes on employee non-qualified stock option gains, amortization of acquired intangible assets, gain on sale of equity investment and the income taxes associated with the foregoing. In addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, eBay's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing the financial results of eBay.
 
eBay excludes the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate:
 
  These expenses consist of expenses for stock options and employee stock purchases under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment". eBay excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that eBay does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results.
Stock-based compensation related to stock options and employee stock purchases.
 
  This amount is dependent on eBay's stock price and the timing and size of exercise by employees of their stock options, over which management has virtually no control, and as such does not correlate to eBay's operation of the business.
Employer payroll taxes on employee non-qualified stock option gains.
 
  eBay incurs amortization of acquired intangible assets in connection with acquisitions and investments. eBay excludes these items because they arise from eBay's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the current operating results of eBay's business.
Amortization of acquired intangible assets.
 
  This amount is used to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP entries.
 
In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, eBay also uses free cash flow. Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less net purchases of property, buildings, and equipment. eBay considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property, buildings, and equipment, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in eBay's business, make strategic acquisitions, strengthen the balance sheet and repurchase stock. A limitation of free cash flow is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the company's cash balance for the period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


