FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20080718133019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On July 16, 2008, eBay Inc. announced the following:
Mr. Dutta will continue to work with Ms. Norrington on the transition until October 2008 and will subsequently act as a consultant through the end of the year. Under the terms of a separation agreement, subject to certain conditions, Mr. Dutta will remain eligible to vest with respect to (i) the remaining one-half of his performance-based restricted stock unit ("PBRSU") grant for the 2007 performance period and (ii) 8/12 of one-half of his PBRSU grant for the 2007-2008 performance period, subject to satisfaction of the associated performance criteria for the 2007-2008 performance period. Subject to certain conditions, Mr. Dutta will also remain eligible to receive 8/12 of the amount he would have received with respect to the 2008 annual component of the eBay Incentive Plan had he remained eligible to receive payment in 2009 with respect to the 2008 annual component, less any applicable withholding taxes.
th
th
A copy of eBay's press release announcing these management changes is attached as an exhibit to this filing. The attached press release also announces that the responsibilities of Stephanie Tilenius, General Manager of eBay North America, will be increased.
In addition, the Compensation Committee of eBay's board of directors has approved the following revised compensation arrangements for Robert Swan, eBay's Chief Financial Officer:
Table of Contents
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
99.1          Press release dated July 16, 2008.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
 eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today announced executive changes to its global Marketplaces business. Effective in October, Rajiv Dutta, President, eBay Marketplaces, will retire from the company. Succeeding Dutta as President, eBay Marketplaces, is Lorrie Norrington, who most recently was President of eBay Marketplaces Operations. She will report to eBay President and CEO John Donahoe.
SAN JOSE  July 16, 2008
"Rajiv has made tremendous contributions to eBay's growth and success, and has been an extraordinary leader over the past decade," Donahoe said. "We wish Rajiv well, and know he will continue to be a strong supporter. He will always be part of the eBay Community.
"We have an exceptionally strong team in place, led by Lorrie Norrington worldwide. Lorrie is a dynamic leader who deeply understands our business, is connected to our Community and is an avid eBay buyer and seller. She has been instrumental in leading the improvements we are making this year and will ensure a smooth transition."
With eBay for 10 years, Dutta served as eBay's Chief Financial Officer, then President of Skype and head of PayPal. He successfully led PayPal until earlier this year when he was named President of eBay marketplaces, succeeding Donahoe in that post. In that role, Dutta has focused this year on re-accelerating growth in eBay Marketplaces and developing longer-term growth strategies, working closely with Norrington.
"I am deeply grateful to have been part of building eBay for the past decade." Dutta said. "With clear growth strategies and a very strong management team in place, the time is right for me to step away. I will remain a passionate champion of eBay and our powerful Community of buyers and sellers who make eBay the most unique and dynamic marketplace in the world."
In her most recent role, Norrington was responsible for driving operational performance across eBay's global network of sites. Previously, Norrington was President of eBay International, overseeing all aspects of eBay' international business, which generated $2.8 billion in revenue in 2007, representing 52 percent of total Marketplaces revenue.
"It's been a real privilege to work with Rajiv on re-accelerating growth in our Marketplace," Norrington said. "We have strong growth strategies in place and a team committed to changes that create a healthy, vibrant Marketplace for the eBay Community. We want eBay to be the most competitive marketplace online, offering great opportunities for sellers and terrific experiences for buyers."
With Norrington's promotion, Stephanie Tilenius, General Manager of eBay North America, will assume additional responsibilities for all of eBay North America operations, including some functions that previously reported to Norrington. Tilenius also continues to be responsible for global product management.
 
Norrington joined eBay three years ago. Prior to eBay International, she was president and CEO of Shopping.com, eBay's online comparison shopping business. She joined Shopping.com in June 2005 after spending four years as COO of Intuit Inc. Before joining Intuit, Norrington spent 20 years at GE in a variety of global roles in the information services, medical systems, industrial systems and financial services businesses. She holds a BS in Business Administration from the University of Maryland and an MBA from the Harvard Business School. She is on the Advisory Board of the Catalyst Group.
About eBay Inc.
Founded in 1995, eBay Inc. connects hundreds of millions of people around the world every day, empowering them to explore new opportunities and innovate together. eBay Inc. does this by providing the Internet platforms of choice for global commerce, payments and communications. Since its inception, eBay Inc. has expanded to include some of the strongest brands in the world, including eBay, PayPal, Skype, Shopping.com, StubHub and others. eBay Inc. is headquartered in San Jose, California.
Media Contact:
Catherine England eBay Inc. 408.376.7458 cengland@ebay.com


