FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20090121204014.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Form 8-K
 
 
Table of Contents
EXPLANATORY NOTE
 
eBay Inc. (the "company") is filing this amendment to its Current Report on Form 8-K, as filed with the SEC on January 21, 2009, to refile the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1. In the original filing, the last page of the press release was inadvertently not filed. All other information included in the original filing is unchanged.
 
The complete press release was publicly available through the company's Investor Relations website at http://investor.ebay.com prior to the conference call referred to in the press release.
Table of Contents
 
 
The information in this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing by eBay Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.
 
On January 21, 2009, eBay Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. A copy of eBay's press release announcing its financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
The attached press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate," "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow," and "Business Outlook" included in the attached press release for further information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures and an explanation of why eBay includes these non-GAAP measures.
 
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to eBay's future performance. A more thorough discussion of certain factors that may affect eBay's actual results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in eBay's Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2008, which will be filed with the SEC during the first quarter of 2009.
Form 10-K
 
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
(Registrant)
eBay Inc.
 
/s/  Michael R. Jacobson
Name:     Michael R. Jacobson
General Counsel and Secretary
 
Date: January 21, 2009
Table of Contents
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
eBAY INC. REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2008 RESULTS
 
San Jose, Calif., January 21, 2009  eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today reported financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. The ecommerce company posted fourth quarter revenue of $2.04 billion, representing a $145 million decrease due primarily to the impact on eBay of a stronger dollar and macroeconomic conditions globally. PayPal, Classifieds, text and graphical advertising and Skype performed well, growing revenue on a basis. The company recorded net income on a GAAP basis of $367 million or $0.29 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $524 million or $0.41 per diluted share.
year-over-year
year-over-year
 
For the full year, eBay Inc. posted $8.54 billion in revenue, net income on a GAAP basis of $1.78 billion or $1.36 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $2.24 billion or $1.71 per diluted share.
 
GAAP operating margin decreased to 22.3% for the quarter, from 28.7% for the same period last year. Non-GAAP operating margin decreased to 32.8% for the quarter, from 34.6% for the same period last year. For the full year, GAAP operating margin came in at 24.3%, with non-GAAP operating margin at 32.1%.
 
eBay Inc. generated $684 million of operating cash flow and $525 million of free cash flow during the fourth quarter. The company's full year operating cash flow was $2.88 billion and free cash flow was $2.32 billion.
 
"While the holiday season was tough and competitive, our overall results for 2008 were strong," said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. "For 2008, we delivered double-digit revenue and earnings growth; made significant changes in our eBay business; and built a stronger, more diverse portfolio of leading businesses. We will build on our strengths in 2009 while managing our business prudently in the continued challenging environment."
e-commerce
 
Quarterly Business Highlights
 
 
 
 
Financial Highlights (presented in millions, except per share data and percentages)
 
 
 
 
 
Quarterly Business Unit Discussion
 
Marketplaces
 
The Marketplaces business unit, which consists of eBay, Shopping.com, StubHub, Kijiji and other ecommerce sites, recorded $1.27 billion in revenue, equating to a 16% decline. The revenue drop was attributable to the impact made by the strengthening dollar and the slow-down of the ecommerce market globally on the eBay business. While average monthly unique visitors were down year over year, eBay remained the number one ecommerce site in the U.S., the U.K. and Germany during the 2008 holiday shopping season, according to Nielsen Online. Approximately 55% of Marketplaces revenue came from markets outside the U.S. Gross merchandise volume (excluding vehicles) was $11.47 billion for the quarter, a decrease of 12%, compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. Online classifieds as well as text and graphical advertising revenue grew during the quarter. eBay continues to focus on buyer and seller initiatives to accelerate sold items in the U.S., the U.K. and Germany.
year-over-year
 
Payments
 
The Payments business unit posted another solid quarter with $623 million in revenue, an increase of 11% year over year. Net total payment volume (TPV) for the quarter was $15.99 billion, an increase of 14% year over year. The revenue and net TPV growth was fueled by expanded adoption of PayPal Merchant Services across the Web and
 
the inclusion of Bill Me Later, acquired on November 7, 2008. Active accounts reached 70 million, an increase of 23% The Payments business will continue to focus on greater penetration into the Marketplaces business as well as the acquisition of new merchants.
year-over-year.
 
Communications
 
Skype contributed $145 million in revenue for the quarter, representing 26% growth, and posted an eighth consecutive quarter of segment profitability. Skype added 35 million new users during the quarter and ended the period with more than 405 million registered users. In addition to growing its user base, Skype is focused on product strategies to enhance customer engagement.
year-over-year
 
Other Selected Financial Results
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
 
Quarterly Conference Call
 
eBay will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call, together with a slide presentation that includes supplemental financial information and reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations web site at . In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible through the same link.
http://investor.ebay.com
 
About eBay Inc.
 
Founded in 1995, eBay Inc. connects hundreds of millions of people around the world every day, empowering them to explore new opportunities and innovate together. eBay Inc. does this by providing the Internet platforms of choice for global commerce, payments and communications. Since its inception, eBay Inc. has expanded to include some of the strongest brands in the world, including eBay, PayPal, Skype, StubHub, Shopping.com, and others. eBay Inc. is headquartered in San Jose, California.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures, see "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate," "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow" and "Business Outlook" included in this press release.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the impact of the credit crisis, economic downturn and other changes in political, business and economic conditions, including conditions that affect consumer confidence or ecommerce growth; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the company's ability to profitably expand its business model to new types of merchandise and sellers; the company's ability to profitably integrate, manage and grow businesses that have been acquired recently or may be acquired in the future; the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users, particularly in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive ecommerce environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; the company's need to manage an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity and in many different geographies; the effect of management changes and business initiatives; the company's need and ability to manage other regulatory, tax and litigation risks as its services are offered in more jurisdictions and applicable laws become more restrictive and any changes the company may make to its product offerings in response to such risk; the regulatory, intellectual property, competitive and other risks specific to Skype; the competitive, regulatory, credit card association, and other risks specific to PayPal, especially as it continues to expand geographically; the company's ability to upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities at reasonable cost; and the company's ability to maintain site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion. The forward-looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions that may be announced completed after the date hereof.
and/or
 
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's most recent annual report on and subsequent quarterly reports on copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations web site at or the SEC's web site at . Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q,
http://investor.ebay.com
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Type
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Segment
 
 
Net Revenues by Geography
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The guidance figures provided below and elsewhere in this press release are forward-looking statements and are approximate in nature because eBay's future performance is difficult to predict. Such guidance is based on information available on the date of this press release, and eBay assumes no obligation to update it.
 
eBay's future performance involves risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from the information below. Some of the factors that could affect the company's operating results are set forth under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" above in this press release. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its most recent annual report on and subsequent quarterly reports on copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations web site at or the SEC's web site at
Form 10-K
Form 10-Q,
http://investor.ebay.com
www.sec.gov.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement the company's consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow.
 
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with eBay's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate eBay's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
 
Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in this press release can be found in the tables included on pages 13, 15 and 16 of this press release.
 
These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future. Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses, and net purchases of property and equipment that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting.
 
For its internal budgeting process, and as discussed further below, eBay's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, restructuring-related charges and the income taxes associated with the foregoing. In addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, eBay's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing the financial results of eBay.
 
eBay excludes the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate:
 
  This expense consists of expenses for stock options, restricted stock and employee stock purchases under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment." eBay excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that eBay does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results.
Stock-based compensation expense.
 
  This amount is dependent on eBay's stock price and the timing and size of exercises by employees of their stock options and the vesting of their restricted stock, over which management has limited to no control, and as such does not correlate to eBay's operation of the business.
Employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation.
 
eBay incurs amortization or impairments of acquired intangible assets and goodwill in connection with acquisitions. eBay excludes these items because they arise from eBay's prior acquisitions and have no direct correlation to the current operating results of eBay's business.
Amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets and impairment of goodwill.
 
  These charges consist of expenses for employee severance and other exit and disposal costs. eBay excludes restructuring charges primarily because eBay does not believe they are reflective of ongoing operating results.
Restructuring.
 
  This amount is used to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP entries.
 
In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, eBay also uses free cash flow. Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less net purchases of property and equipment. eBay considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property, buildings, and equipment, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in eBay's business, make strategic acquisitions, strengthen the balance sheet and repurchase stock. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the company's cash balance for the period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


