FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20091106161644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 5, 2009, eBay Inc., a Delaware corporation ("eBay"), eBay International AG, a company organized under the laws of Switzerland and a wholly owned subsidiary of eBay ("International"), and Sonorit Holding, AS, a Norwegian company and a wholly owned subsidiary of eBay ("Sonorit," and together with eBay and International, the "Sellers"), and Springboard Group S.a.r.l., a company organized under the laws of Luxembourg (the "Buyer"), entered into Amendment No. 3 and Consent (the "Amendment") amending the share purchase agreement (the "Purchase Agreement") dated as of September 1, 2009, as amended on September 14, 2009, October 19, 2009 and October 21, 2009, pursuant to which the Sellers agreed to sell the share capital of Skype Luxembourg Holdings S.a.r.l., Skype Inc. and Sonorit (collectively with their respective subsidiaries, the "Skype Companies") to the Buyer.
The Amendment was entered into to reflect the terms of a settlement agreement entered into on November 5, 2009 (the "Settlement Agreement") by, among others, the Sellers, the Buyer, certain Skype Companies, the members of the investor group led by Silver Lake that formed the Buyer (including the Canada Pension Plan (CPP) Investment Board, Index Ventures and Andreessen Horowitz) and certain affiliated parties, and Joltid Limited and certain of its affiliated parties., pursuant to which the parties to the Settlement Agreement agreed, among other things, to transfer to the Skype Companies all software previously licensed from Joltid and to end all currently pending litigation by Joltid against eBay and the members of the investor group upon completion of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement.
The Amendment, among other things, reflects that the 35% equity stake in the Buyer to be received by the Sellers at the closing would be reduced to approximately 30% after taking into account the equity issuances to be made by the Buyer pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement.
As previously disclosed, Mr. Marc L. Andreessen, a member of the board of directors of eBay, is a general partner of Andreessen Horowitz, which will own less than 5% of the Buyer.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On November 6, 2009, eBay issued a press release announcing the execution of the Settlement Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
99.1       Press Release, issued by eBay Inc. on November 6, 2009
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 6, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 eBay Inc. (NASDAQ: EBAY) today announced that the investor group led by Silver Lake, which had previously entered into a definitive agreement to acquire a majority stake in Skype from the company, has reached a settlement agreement with Joltid Limited and Joost N.V. that gives Skype ownership over all software previously licensed from Joltid and ends all litigation currently pending against the investor group and eBay at the closing of the acquisition.
SAN JOSE  November 6, 2009
As part of the settlement agreement, Joltid and Skype founders Niklas Zennstrm and Janus Friis will join the investor group, contributing Joltid software and making a significant capital investment in exchange for a 14 percent stake in Skype. As a result, Silver Lake and other investors including Andreessen Horowitz and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB), will together hold 56 percent of Skype and eBay will retain 30 percent. As previously announced, eBay will receive approximately $1.9 billion in cash upon the completion of the sale and a note from the buyer in the principal amount of $125 million. The deal, which values Skype at $2.75 billion and is not subject to a financing condition, is expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2009.
"Skype will be well positioned to move forward under new owners with ownership and control over its core technology," said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. "At the same time, eBay continues to retain a significant stake in Skype and will benefit from its continued growth. We look forward to closing the deal and focusing on growing our core ecommerce and payments businesses."
Commenting on the agreement on behalf of the investor group, Silver Lake Managing Director Egon Durban said: "We are very pleased to have the litigation resolved. We remain confident in a great future for Skype, and we look forward to working with Niklas, Janus and the other investors as partners to help the company achieve its full potential."
The investor group will no longer include Index Ventures, which has withdrawn from participation. Commenting on its decision to withdraw, Danny Rimer of Index Ventures, said: "We are pleased that Skype will now be able to put litigation behind it, and we wish Josh Silverman, his team and the Skype investors well in continuing to grow a great business. Although Skype has the potential to be a great investment, the deal terms changed for Index such that it no longer matches our investment criteria and thus we have decided not to participate in the transaction."
About eBay Inc.
Founded in 1995, eBay Inc. (NASDAQ: EBAY) connects hundreds of millions of people around the world every day, empowering them to explore new opportunities and innovate together. eBay does this by
providing the Internet platforms of choice for global commerce, payments and communications. Since its inception, eBay has expanded to include some of the strongest brands in the world, including eBay, PayPal, Skype, StubHub, Shopping.com, and others. eBay is headquartered in San Jose, California. For more information, please visit www.ebay.com.
About Skype
Skype is software that enables the world's conversations. Millions of individuals and businesses use Skype to make free video and voice calls, send instant messages and share files with other Skype users. Every day, people everywhere also use Skype to make low-cost calls to landlines and mobiles.
Forward Looking Statements
This announcement contains forward-looking statements relating to eBay's future performance that are based on its current expectations, forecasts and assumptions. Those statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results may differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the receipt and timing of regulatory approval for the transaction; the possibility that the transaction may not close; the reaction of consumers and Skype's users and commercial partners to the transaction; the reaction of competitors to the transaction; the anticipated continuation of Skype's growth; and the potential longer-term value of Skype.
More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results can be found in the company's most recent annual report on its Form 10-K and its subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (available at ). All forward-looking statements are based on information available to eBay on the date hereof, and eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
http://investor.ebayinc.com
For more information:
Alan Marks, eBay Inc.
(408) 425-9539
amarks@ebay.com
Mike Buckley/Anisha Patel, Brunswick
(415) 671-7676


