FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20090311175655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On March 11, 2009, eBay Inc. ("eBay") provided a overview of its growth plans through 2011 at a company-held meeting. A copy of eBay's press release entitled "eBay Inc. Announces Three-Year Roadmap for Growth" is attached as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K. An archive of eBay's webcast of the meeting will be publicly available on eBay Inc.s Investor Relations page at http://investor.ebay.com for 30 days following the meeting.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
EBAY INC. ANNOUNCES THREE-YEAR ROADMAP FOR GROWTH
Company provides long-term financial outlook at analyst meeting
eBay Inc. (NASDAQ: EBAY) today shared with investors at a company-held meeting a roadmap of its growth plans through 2011. The company provided details of its strategies to drive leadership in the company's two core businesses  its PayPal global online payments business and its ecommerce marketplace and other ecommerce formats that connect buyers and sellers.
San Jose, Calif.,  March 11, 2009 
eBay Inc. continues to rapidly extend its global leadership in online payments through PayPal. John Donahoe, eBay Inc. president and chief executive officer, stressed the enormous potential of PayPal. Donahoe said PayPal has become a second core business for the company, with an opportunity bigger than eBay Marketplaces because PayPal targets all of ecommerce.
"We expect PayPal to become the next leading online global payments network," Donahoe said. "Increasingly for online consumers, there's no paper, no plastic  there's just PayPal. We believe this business is one of the most exciting and high-potential opportunities anywhere online today."
The company also provided details of its plans to stabilize and return its eBay Marketplaces business to ecommerce market growth rates. At the same time, eBay is diversifying across a range of formats such as classifieds and advertising that are expected to grow faster than ecommerce and help eBay connect buyers and sellers locally, nationally and globally.
"We are aggressively remaking and transforming our eBay Marketplace and diversifying the ways in which we compete in ecommerce," Donahoe said. "We operate in what is still a young and rapidly evolving ecommerce landscape, and as the pace of change in ecommerce accelerates, we are not here to mimic or follow. We are here to lead and innovate. We are positioning this company to compete and win across a range of profitable ecommerce platforms focused on connecting buyers and sellers across the platform of their choice."
Based on current business trends and expectations, the company provided the following financial outlook for 2011:
Outlook
About eBay Inc.
Founded in 1995, eBay Inc. connects hundreds of millions of people around the world every day, empowering them to explore new opportunities and innovate together. eBay Inc. does this by providing the Internet platforms of choice for global commerce, payments and communications. Since its inception, eBay Inc. has expanded to include some of the strongest brands in the world, including eBay, PayPal, Skype, StubHub, Shopping.com, and others. eBay Inc. is headquartered in San Jose, California.
Non-GAAP Financial Measure
This press release includes the following financial measure defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: free cash flow. This measure may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. eBay's free cash flow represents operating cash flows less net purchases of property and equipment.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: recent global economic events and the global downturn; changes in political, business and economic conditions, including conditions that affect consumer confidence or ecommerce growth; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the company's ability to profitably expand its business model to new types of merchandise and sellers; the company's ability to profitably integrate, manage and grow businesses that have been acquired recently or may be acquired in the future; the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users, particularly in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive ecommerce environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; the company's need to manage an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity and in many different geographies; the effect of management changes and business initiatives; the company's need and ability to manage other regulatory, tax and litigation risks as its services are offered in more jurisdictions and applicable laws become more restrictive and any changes the company may make to its product offerings in response to such risk; the regulatory, intellectual property, competitive and other risks specific to Skype; the competitive, regulatory, credit card association, and other risks specific to PayPal, especially as it continues to expand geographically; the company's ability to upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities at reasonable cost; and the company's ability to maintain site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion. The forward-looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions that may be announced and/or completed after the date hereof.
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations web site at or the SEC's web site at . Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
http://investor.ebay.com
www.sec.gov


