FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20090401172123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 8.01 Other Events.
As previously disclosed, Skype has been in a dispute with the licensor of certain key technologies and had terminated a "standstill" agreement that had been entered into between the parties, permitting either to take action against the other with effect from March 2009. On March 12, 2009, Skype Technologies S.A. filed a claim in the English High Court of Justice (No. HC09C00756) against Joltid Limited, a BVI company. In connection with the license agreement between the two companies, Skype licenses peer-to-peer communication technology from Joltid, and Joltid has claimed that Skype has breached the terms of the license agreement. Following the filing of the claim, Joltid purported to terminate the license agreement. In particular, Joltid has alleged that Skype should not possess, use or modify certain software code (the "Code") and that, by doing so, and by disclosing the Code in certain U.S. patent cases, pursuant to orders from U.S. courts, it has breached the license agreement. On the ba sis of, among other things, the parties mutual dealings since the execution of the licence agreement, Skype is asking the English High Court for declaratory relief, including findings that: (i) Skype is lawfully accessing, in possession of, using and modifying the Code so that Skype is not in breach of the license agreement with Joltid and accordingly Joltid's notice of breach and subsequent notice of termination are invalid; (ii) Skype lawfully disclosed the Code in the U.S. patent cases so that Skype is not in breach of the license agreement with Joltid and accordingly Joltid's notice of breach and subsequent notice of termination are invalid; and (iii) Joltid has certain indemnity obligations in relation to the U.S. patent proceedings. Although Skype is confident of its legal position, as with any litigation there is the possibility of an adverse result if the matter is not resolved through negotiation. In such event, Skype would be adversely affected and the conti nued operation of Skype's business as currently conducted would likely not be possible. Forward-Looking Statements This filing contains forward-looking statements relating to the litigation between Skype and Joltid, including the possibility of an adverse result and its potential impact on the operation of Skypes business. Those statements involve risks and uncertainties, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to eBay on the date hereof, and eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

EXHIBIT 99.1
SKYPE FILES CLAIM AGAINST JOLTID OVER LICENSE AGREEMENT
San Jose, Calif., April 1, 2009  Skype, a division of eBay Inc. (NASDAQ: EBAY), is asking a U.K. court to resolve a dispute with Joltid Limited, which owns peer-to-peer communication technology licensed by Skype for use in its software. In a recently filed claim with the English High Court of Justice in London, Skype is asking the Court to find that Joltid's efforts to terminate the agreement are invalid and that Skype is not in breach of the licensing agreement.
The licensing agreement dispute was previously disclosed by eBay in its most recent annual report, issued February 20. The report states that Skype terminated a "standstill" agreement, allowing either party to take action against the other beginning in March. Joltid is attempting to terminate the agreement based on allegations that Skype has breached its terms. Skype strongly refutes those allegations and is confident of its legal position.
Founded in 2003, Skype is revolutionizing the way people communicate around the world. Skype has more than 405 million registered users globally who use Skype software to communicate for free through voice and video calls as well as instant messages. Skype generates revenue through its premium offerings, such as calls made to and from landlines and mobiles, voicemail, call forwarding, and SMS. Skype is used in almost every country on Earth, and people have made more than 100 billion minutes worth of free Skype-to-Skype calls. Conversations over Skype can take place on computers, mobile devices and Skype Certified hardware. Skype certifies and sells hundreds of hardware products from more than 50 partners, and works with hundreds of third-party developers who have created plug-ins to extend Skype's functionality.
About Skype
Founded in 1995, eBay Inc. connects hundreds of millions of people around the world every day, empowering them to explore new opportunities and innovate together. eBay Inc. does this by providing the Internet platforms of choice for global commerce, payments and communications. Since its inception, eBay Inc. has expanded to include some of the strongest brands in the world, including eBay, PayPal, Skype, StubHub, Shopping.com, and others. eBay Inc. is headquartered in San Jose, California.
About eBay Inc.
This filing contains forward-looking statements relating to the litigation between Skype and Joltid. Those statements involve risks and uncertainties, including the possibility of an adverse result and its potential impact on the operation of Skype's business, and actual results could differ materially from those discussed. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results can be found in the company's most recent annual report on its Form 10-K and its subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (available at or at the SEC's website at .). All forward-looking statements are based on information available to eBay on the date hereof, and eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
Forward Looking Statements
http://investor.ebay.com
www.sec.gov
Jose Mallabo eBay Inc. 408-376-7458
Media contact:
Vandana Hariharan eBay Inc. 408-376-5877
Investor Contact:


