FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20100120163100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing by eBay Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing, unless otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
On January 20, 2010, eBay Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2009. A copy of eBay's press release announcing its financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The attached press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate," "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow," and "Business Outlook" included in the attached press release for further information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures and an explanation of why eBay includes these non-GAAP measures.
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to, among other things, eBay's future performance. A more thorough discussion of certain factors that may affect eBay's actual results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in eBay's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations web site at or the SEC's web site at . Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in the attached press release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
http://investor.ebayinc.com
www.sec.gov
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

Exhibit 99.1
eBAY INC. REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2009 RESULTS
San Jose, Calif., January 20, 2010  eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009. The e-commerce company posted fourth-quarter revenue of $2.4 billion, up 16% from the same period last year. This includes revenue of $112.0 million from Skype for the period that we fully owned it. Excluding Skype from the fourth quarter of 2008 and the fourth quarter of 2009, revenue growth would have been 19%. The year-over-year increase was due primarily to excellent growth in PayPal and StubHub and improvement in growth rates in the core eBay business, as well as the positive impact from foreign currency movements. The company recorded net income on a GAAP basis of $1.4 billion or $1.02 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $585.8 million or $0.44 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2009.
For the full year, eBay Inc. posted $8.7 billion in revenue, net income on a GAAP basis of $2.4 billion or $1.83 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $2.1 billion or $1.58 per diluted share.
GAAP operating margin decreased to 7.6% for the quarter, compared to 22.3% for the same period last year. The year-over-year decrease in GAAP operating margin was due primarily to the impact from a settlement agreement between Skype, Joltid and entities controlled by its founders. Non-GAAP operating margin decreased to 29.3% for the quarter, compared to 32.8% for the same period last year. The decrease in non-GAAP operating margin was caused in part by recent acquisitions and the company's continuing shift in the mix of its businesses, partially offset by productivity gains.
eBay Inc. generated $770.6 million of operating cash flow and $597.7 million of free cash flow during the fourth quarter.
"We delivered a strong fourth quarter with double-digit revenue growth driven by exceptional performance at PayPal and turnaround progress and momentum in our core eBay business," said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. "PayPal significantly expanded its presence globally and, for the first time, processed more than $20 billion in total payment volume in a quarter. Gross merchandise volume and sold items, accelerated for the third consecutive quarter. We are starting 2010 with significant progress against our three-year growth strategies for PayPal and eBay and a clear focus on our priorities going forward."
Financial Highlights (presented in millions, except per share data and percentages)
 
 
Quarterly Business Unit Discussion
Payments
The Payments business unit reported $795.6 million in revenue for the quarter, an increase of 28% year over year. Net total payment volume (TPV) for the quarter was $21.4 billion, an increase of 34% year over year. The growth in revenue and TPV was driven primarily by continued momentum in PayPal's Merchant Services business and growth on the eBay platform. PayPal continued to increase its penetration on eBay and across other e-commerce platforms. The Payments business plans to remain focused on continuing consumer and merchant adoption on and off eBay, expansion of PayPal's open platform initiative and ongoing integration of Bill Me Later onto eBay.
Marketplaces
The Marketplaces business unit, which consists of eBay, Shopping.com, StubHub, Kijiji and other e-commerce sites, recorded $1.5 billion in revenue for the quarter, a 15% year-over-year increase. Marketplaces net transaction revenue increased 17% year over year. The Marketplaces business unit benefited from strong growth in its fixed-price format, the continuing success of its highest rated sellers, and double-digit organic growth in sold items. Marketplaces continued to benefit from growth in its international business, which accounted for approximately 60% of Marketplaces revenue for the fourth quarter. Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) (excluding vehicles) was $14.2 billion for the quarter, an increase of 24% compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. StubHub had a particularly strong quarter driven primarily by high-profile concerts and sporting events leading to strong demand and market share gains. The Marketplaces business plans to continue to focus on trust, value and selection in its core business to drive future GMV growth and on format expansion.
Communications
On November 19, 2009, eBay Inc. completed the sale of the majority of Skype to an investor group. The company received cash proceeds of approximately $1.9 billion and a note in the principal amount of $125.0 million and retained an approximately 30 percent equity interest in Skype. On a GAAP basis, the sale resulted in a net gain of $1.4 billion recorded in interest and other income, net on our condensed consolidated statement of income. Skype contributed $112.0 million in revenue during the fourth quarter of 2009. We account for our approximately 30 percent continuing investment in Skype under the equity method of accounting.
Other Selected Financial Results
 
 
Business Outlook
 
 
 
Quarterly Conference Call
eBay will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year 2009 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call, together with a slide presentation that includes supplemental financial information and reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations web site at . In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible through the same link.
http://investor.ebayinc.com
About eBay Inc.
Founded in 1995 in San Jose, Calif., eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY) connects millions of buyers and sellers globally on a daily basis through eBay, the world's largest online marketplace, and PayPal, which enables individuals and businesses to securely, easily and quickly send and receive online payments. We also reach millions through specialized marketplaces such as StubHub, the world's largest ticket marketplace, and eBay Classifieds, which together has presence in more than 1,000 cities around the world. For more information about the company and our global portfolio of online brands, visit .
www.ebayinc.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures, see "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income," "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate," "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flows to Free Cash Flow" and "Business Outlook" included in this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to, among other things, the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries that are based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected financial results for the first quarter and full year 2010, the focus of the Payments and Marketplaces business units going forward and future growth in the Marketplaces and Payments businesses. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted or implied and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the further impact of the credit crisis, continued or worsening economic downturn and other changes in political, business and economic conditions, including any interest rates and conditions that affect consumer confidence or e-commerce growth; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the company's ability to profitably integrate, manage and grow businesses that have been acquired recently or may be acquired in the future; the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users, particularly in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive e-commerce environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; the company's need to manage an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity and in many different geographies; the effect of management changes and business initiatives; the company's need and ability to manage other regulatory, tax and litigation risks as its services are offered in more jurisdictions and applicable laws become more restrictive; any changes the company may make to its product offerings; the competitive, regulatory, credit card association-related, and other risks specific to PayPal and Bill Me Later, especially as PayPal continues to expand geographically and grow its open platform initiative; the company's ability to upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities at reasonable cost; and the company's ability to maintain site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion. The forward-looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions or divestitures that may be announced and/or completed after the date hereof.
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's Investor Relations web site at or
http://investor.ebayinc.com
 
the SEC's web site at . Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Type
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Segment
 
Net Revenues by Geography (2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rent.com, Shopping.com and eBay's classifieds websites are not included in these metrics.
 
 
 
The guidance figures provided below and elsewhere in this press release are forward-looking statements, reflect a number of estimates, assumptions and other uncertainties, and are approximate in nature because eBay's future performance is difficult to predict. Such guidance is based on information available on the date of this press release, and eBay assumes no obligation to update it.
eBay's future performance involves risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from the information below and elsewhere in this press release. Some of the factors that could affect the company's operating results are set forth under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" above in this press release. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations web site at or the SEC's web site at
http://investor.ebayinc.com
www.sec.gov.
 
 
To supplement the company's condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with eBay's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate eBay's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in this press release can be found in the tables included on pages 12, 14 and 15 of this press release.
These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future. Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses, and net purchases of property and equipment that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting.
For its internal budgeting process, and as discussed further below, eBay's management uses financial statements that do not include stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, significant gains or losses from the disposal of a business, restructuring-related charges and the income taxes associated with the foregoing. In addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, eBay's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing the financial results of eBay.
eBay excludes the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate:
 This expense consists of expenses for stock options, restricted stock and employee stock purchases. eBay excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that management does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results.
Stock-based compensation expense.
 This amount is dependent on eBay's stock price and the timing and size of exercises by employees of their stock options and the vesting of their restricted stock, over which management has limited to no control, and as such management does not believe it correlates to eBay's operation of the business.
Employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation.
eBay incurs amortization or impairments of acquired intangible assets and goodwill in connection with acquisitions and may incur significant gains or losses from the disposal of a business. eBay also settled a legal exposure in conjunction with the disposal of a business. eBay's results are also impacted by hedge transactions related to unique movements of cash from significant business acquisitions or dispositions. eBay excludes these items which management does not believe has any direct correlation to the current operating results of eBay's business.
Amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and significant gains or losses from the disposal of a business.
 These charges consist of expenses for employee severance and other exit and disposal costs. eBay excludes restructuring charges primarily because management does not believe they are reflective of ongoing operating results.
Restructuring.
 This amount is used to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP entries.
In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, eBay also uses free cash flow. Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less net purchases of property and equipment. eBay considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property, buildings, and equipment, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in eBay's business, make strategic acquisitions, and repurchase stock. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the company's cash balance for the period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


