FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20110120061021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE
eBay Inc. is filing this amendment to its Current Report on Form 8-K, as filed with the SEC on January 19, 2011, to refile the press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 in order to correct a typographical error with respect to reported " - Gross merchandise volume (excl. vehicles)  International" as set forth in the last row of the "Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Financial Highlights" table on page 1 of the press release. As amended, " - Gross merchandise volume (excl. vehicles)  International" for full year 2010 has been corrected to read "$33,116", and not the originally reported "$31,116", and the numbers under the year-over-year "Change" column have been corrected to read "$4,382" and "15%", and not the originally reported "$2,382" and "8%", respectively. All other information included in the original filing is unchanged.
Marketplaces
Marketplaces
 
The information in this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing by eBay Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing, unless otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
On January 19, 2011, eBay Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2010. A copy of eBay's press release announcing its financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The attached press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP revenue excluding Skype, non-GAAP net income excluding Skype, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share excluding Skype, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See "Business Outlook," "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Net Income Excluding Skype," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Revenue to Non-GAAP Net Revenue Excluding Skype," "Reconciliation of GAAP Effective Tax Rate to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate," and "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow to Free Cash Flow" included in the attached press release for further information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures and an explanation of why eBay includes these non-GAAP measures.
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to, among other things, eBay's future performance. A more thorough discussion of certain factors that may affect eBay's actual results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in eBay's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations web site at or the SEC's web site at . Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in the attached press release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
http://investor.ebayinc.com
www.sec.gov
 
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 

Exhibit 99.1
eBAY INC. REPORTS STRONG FOURTH QUARTER AND FULL YEAR 2010 RESULTS
, January 19, 2011  Global ecommerce and online payments leader eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today reported that revenue for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2010 increased 5% to $2.5 billion, or 10% excluding Skype, compared to the same period of 2009. The company recorded fourth quarter net income on a GAAP basis of $559.2 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $683.8 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, representing a 24% increase excluding Skype, compared to the same period of 2009. The fourth quarter increase in non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was due primarily to solid productivity, strong growth and a lower tax rate.
SAN JOSE, Calif.
For the full year, eBay Inc. posted $9.2 billion in revenue, net income on a GAAP basis of $1.8 billion, or $1.36 per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of $2.3 billion, or $1.73 per diluted share. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding Skype, net revenue was up 13% for the full year compared to 2009 and earnings per diluted share was up 18%.
The company's PayPal business delivered strong fourth quarter performance, expanding its leadership position in global payments. PayPal ended the quarter with 94.4 million active registered accounts, adding approximately one million active accounts per month. PayPal's net total payment volume was $26.9 billion in the fourth quarter, driven primarily by growth in its Merchant Services business, including strong growth across global markets, increased merchant adoption and greater usage by customers. Nearly half of PayPal's revenue in the fourth quarter was generated outside the United States, reflecting PayPal's global growth. PayPal continued to innovate in mobile payments and digital goods, launching new products and services to expand its presence on new devices and platforms. For the full year, mobile payment volume increased five times compared to 2009 and exceeded expectations.
The company's Marketplaces business continued to deliver improved performance during the fourth quarter. Gross merchandise volume (excluding vehicles) increased to $15.0 billion and sold items grew 10%, reflecting gains in the United States, United Kingdom and Germany. eBay's fashion business, a focus for the company in 2010, grew faster than ecommerce in the United Kingdom and Germany in the fourth quarter and performed well in the United States. Steady consumer adoption of eBay's portfolio of mobile applications contributed to strong holiday shopping momentum in the fourth quarter and pushed total mobile gross merchandise volume for the full year to nearly $2 billion.
"We delivered a strong fourth quarter and a solid year, driven by our customer focus, commitment to technology-led innovation and our operating discipline, which is enabling us to reinvest in growth," said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. "We are driving strong global growth at PayPal and strengthening our core eBay business. And we are innovating quickly in areas such as mobile, which is helping to position us at the forefront of trends shaping the future of shopping and payments."
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2010 Financial Highlights (presented in millions, except per share data and percentages)
 
 
 
Other Selected Financial Results
 
 
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
 
 
Quarterly Conference Call
eBay will host a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year 2010 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call, together with a slide presentation that includes supplemental financial information and reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations web site at . In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
http://investor.ebayinc.com
About eBay Inc.
Founded in 1995 in San Jose, Calif., eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY) connects millions of buyers and sellers globally on a daily basis through eBay, the world's largest online marketplace, and PayPal, which enables individuals and businesses to securely, easily and quickly send and receive online payments. We also reach millions through specialized marketplaces such as StubHub, the world's largest ticket marketplace, and eBay classifieds sites, which together have a presence in more than 1,000 cities around the world. For more information about the company and its global portfolio of online brands, visit .
www.ebayinc.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release includes the following financial measures defined as "non-GAAP financial measures" by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP net revenue excluding Skype, non-GAAP net income excluding Skype, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share excluding Skype, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures, see "Business Outlook," "Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance," "Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Net Income Excluding Skype," "Reconciliation of GAAP Net Revenue to Non-GAAP Net Revenue Excluding Skype," "Reconciliation of GAAP Effective Tax Rate to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate" and "Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow to Free Cash Flow" included in this press release.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to, among other things, the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries that are based on the company's current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected financial results for the first quarter and full year 2011 and the future growth in the Payments and Marketplaces businesses. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted or implied and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: the after effects of the global economic downturn, changes in political, business and economic conditions, including any conditions that affect ecommerce growth; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the company's ability to profitably integrate, manage and grow businesses that have been acquired recently or may be acquired in the future; the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users, particularly in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive ecommerce environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; the company's need to manage an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity and in many different geographies; the effect of management changes and business initiatives; the company's need and ability to manage other regulatory, tax and litigation risks as its services are offered in more jurisdictions and applicable laws become more restrictive; any changes the company may make to its product offerings; the competitive, regulatory, credit card association-related and other risks specific to PayPal and Bill Me Later, especially as PayPal continues to expand geographically and grow its open platform initiative and as new laws and regulations related to financial services companies come into effect; the company's ability to upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities at reasonable cost; and the company's ability to maintain site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion. The forward-looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions or divestitures that may be announced and/or completed after the date hereof.
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's Investor Relations web site at or the SEC's web site at . Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
http://investor.ebayinc.com
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Type
 
 
 
Net Revenues by Segment
 
Net Revenues by Geography (2)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
eBay's classifieds websites, Rent.com and Shopping.com are not included in these metrics.
 
 
The guidance figures provided below and elsewhere in this press release are forward-looking statements, reflect a number of estimates, assumptions and other uncertainties, and are approximate in nature because eBay's future performance is difficult to predict. Such guidance is based on information available on the date of this press release, and eBay assumes no obligation to update it.
eBay's future performance involves risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from the information below and elsewhere in this press release. Some of the factors that could affect the company's operating results are set forth under the caption "Forward-Looking Statements" above in this press release. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations web site at or the SEC's web site at .
http://investor.ebayinc.com
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
To supplement the company's condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP net revenue excluding Skype, non-GAAP net income excluding Skype, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share excluding Skype, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with eBay's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate eBay's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in this press release can be found in the tables included on pages 11, 13 and 14 of this press release.
These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future. Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses or net purchases of property and equipment, as the case may be, that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes that the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting.
For its internal budgeting process, and as discussed further below, eBay's management uses financial measures that do not include stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, significant gains or losses from the disposal of a business, restructuring-related charges and the income taxes associated with the foregoing. In addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, eBay's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing the financial results of eBay.
eBay excludes the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate:
This expense consists of expenses for stock options, restricted stock and employee stock purchases. eBay excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that management does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results. eBay also excludes its proportionate share of Skype's stock-based compensation expense.
Stock-based compensation expense.
This amount is dependent on eBay's stock price and the timing and size of exercises by employees of their stock options and the vesting of their restricted stock, over which management has limited to no control, and as such management does not believe it correlates to eBay's operation of the business.
Employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation.
eBay incurs amortization or impairments of acquired intangible assets and goodwill in connection with acquisitions and may incur significant gains or losses from the disposal of a business and therefore excludes these amounts from its non-GAAP measures. eBay also excludes its proportionate share of Skype's amortization of acquired intangibles expense. eBay also settled a legal exposure in conjunction with the disposal of a business and excludes this settlement payment. In addition, eBay's results are also impacted by hedge transactions related to unique movements of cash from significant business acquisitions or dispositions. eBay excludes these items because management does not believe they have any direct correlation to the current operating results of eBay's business.
Amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and significant gains or losses from the disposal of a business.
These charges consist of expenses for employee severance and other exit and disposal costs. eBay excludes restructuring charges primarily because management does not believe they are reflective of ongoing operating results.
Restructuring.
This amount is used to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income.
Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP entries.
The presentation of non-GAAP net income excluding Skype and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share excluding Skype also excludes, in addition to the amounts described above, Skype's 2009 results of operations, which were consolidated in the company's 2009 results through the date of sale (November 19, 2009). The presentation of non-GAAP net revenue excluding Skype excludes Skype's 2009 net revenue, which was consolidated in the company's 2009 net revenue through the date of sale.
In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, eBay also uses free cash flow. Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less net purchases of property and equipment. eBay considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property, buildings, and equipment, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in eBay's business, make strategic acquisitions, and repurchase stock. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the company's cash balance for the period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


