FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20110929172140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On September 29, 2011, eBay Inc. (the "Company") announced that Katie Mitic had been appointed as a new member of the Company's Board of Directors. A copy of the Company's press release announcing Ms. Mitic's appointment is attached as an exhibit to this filing.
Ms. Mitic's term on the Board of Directors began on September 28, 2011. Ms. Mitic fills a vacancy created by an increase in the size of the Board of Directors from 11 to 12. The Company's Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws provide for its Board of Directors to be divided into three classes, with each class having a three-year term. Ms. Mitic will be a member of the second class of directors, with a term of office expiring at the Company's annual meeting of stockholders in 2012.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 
 
News Release
Contact:
Amanda Coffee
press@ebay.com
408-221-1984
Facebook executive Katie Mitic Joins eBay Inc.'s Board of Directors
SAN JOSE (Sept. 29, 2011) - eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today announced that Facebook executive Katie Mitic is joining the company's board of directors, effective immediately. A seasoned technology leader and entrepreneur, Mitic currently leads Platform and Mobile Marketing for Facebook, with responsibility for shaping and growing innovative products for over two million developers and businesses that engage with the 800 million active users.
"Katie has great experience in building innovative global platforms, products and services. Her expertise will be a tremendous asset for eBay as we focus on enabling the future of commerce and changing how consumers shop and pay with our global platforms," said John Donahoe, eBay Inc. President and CEO. "We are delighted to add such strong technology expertise and leadership to our board."
Prior to joining Facebook, Mitic served as Senior Vice President of Global Product Marketing at Palm, where she oversaw hardware and software product management and marketing, as well as business and corporate development. She expanded the company's product line and global footprint with the launch of new mobile devices, one of the industry's earliest mobile app stores and developer programs, and global distribution channels and partnerships.
She previously served as Vice President and General Manager at Yahoo!, managing strategic global businesses including Yahoo! Mail, Yahoo! Small Business and Yahoo! Personals. In addition to Yahoo!, Mitic was involved in a variety of start-ups and venture capital.
Mitic serves on the board of Special Olympics International and is active in the entrepreneurial community, serving as an advisor and as a director to a number of fast-growth companies and innovative organizations. She holds a BA from Stanford University and an MBA from Harvard Business School.
Her appointment expands eBay's board to 12 directors, 10 of whom are independent.
About eBay Inc.
Founded in 1995 in San Jose, Calif., eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY) is about connecting buyers and sellers. We do so through
eBay, the world's largest online marketplace, which allows users to buy and sell in nearly every country on earth; through PayPal, which enables individuals and businesses to securely, easily and quickly send and receive online payments; and through GSI, which facilitates ecommerce, multichannel retailing and digital marketing for global enterprises. We also reach millions through specialized marketplaces such as StubHub, the world's largest ticket marketplace, and eBay classifieds sites, which together have a presence in more than 1,000 cities around the world. For more information about the company and its global portfolio of online brands, visit www.ebayinc.com.
 
 
 
 
 
 


