FILE:EBAY/EBAY-8K-20110720162634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
    
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 20, 2011
eBay Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
2145 Hamilton Avenue
San Jose, CA 95125
(Address of principal executive offices)
(408) 376-7400
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Not Applicable.
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.
 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this report is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing by eBay Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language contained in such filing, unless otherwise expressly stated in such filing.
On July 20, 2011, eBay Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. A copy of eBay's press release announcing its financial results and certain other information is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
The attached press release includes the following financial measures defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. See Business Outlook, Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance, Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin, Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income, Reconciliation of GAAP Effective Tax Rate to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate, and Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow to Free Cash Flow included in the attached press release for further information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures, including a reconciliation of these measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures and an explanation of why eBay includes these non-GAAP measures.
The attached press release also contains forward-looking statements relating to, among other things, eBay's future performance. A more thorough discussion of certain factors that may affect eBay's actual results is included under the captions Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in eBay's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations web site at
http://investor.ebayinc.com
or the SEC's web site at
www.sec.gov
. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in the attached press release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
 
Item 9.01.
 
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
The following exhibit is furnished with this report:
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                    
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 99.1
eBAY INC. REPORTS STRONG SECOND QUARTER 2011 RESULTS
SAN JOSE, Calif.
,
July 20, 2011
 - Global ecommerce and online payments leader eBay Inc. (Nasdaq: EBAY) today reported that revenue for the
second
quarter ended
June 30, 2011
, increased
25%
to
$2.8 billion
, compared to the same period of
2010
. The company recorded
second
quarter net income on a GAAP basis of
$283.4 million
, or
$0.22
per diluted share, and non-GAAP net income of
$630.9 million
, or
$0.48
per diluted share. In the second quarter GAAP net income decreased year over year compared to the second quarter of 2010 due to charges related to the GSI Commerce (GSI) transaction. The year-over-year increase in second quarter non-GAAP earnings per diluted share was driven by solid top-line growth and productivity.
"Second quarter revenue and earnings were strong, with PayPal surpassing 100 million active registered accounts and reporting its first billion-dollar revenue quarter, and eBay growth in the U.S. accelerating," said eBay Inc. President and CEO John Donahoe. "We also strengthened our portfolio in Q2 with acquisitions that we believe will more broadly position us to enable the future of commerce. We will partner with retailers of all sizes to help them grow in a rapidly shifting, technology-driven multichannel commerce environment, and we will help consumers shop and pay anytime, anywhere, any way." 
The company's PayPal business delivered strong
second
quarter performance, expanding its leadership position in global payments. PayPal ended the quarter with
100.3 million
active registered accounts, a
15%
increase year over year. PayPal's net total payment volume (TPV) grew
34%
to
$28.7 billion
in the
second
quarter of
2011
compared to the same period of last year. PayPal delivered its first-ever billion dollar revenue quarter, driven by strong performance in its Merchant Services business as well as increased penetration on eBay. PayPal continued to demonstrate strength in mobile payments and now expects more than $3 billion in mobile TPV this year, compared to $750 million in 2010.
The company's Marketplaces business also delivered strong second quarter performance. Gross merchandise volume excluding vehicles (GMV), increased by
17%
year over year to
$14.7 billion
. GMV in the U.S. increased
14%
year over year, the third consecutive quarter of acceleration, driven by improved customer experiences in search and navigation. International GMV increased
19%
year over year, resulting from stable growth in Europe and improved performance in Korea, as well as positive impacts from foreign currency movements. The Marketplaces business continued to drive innovation in key areas such as mobile, where downloads of eBay's portfolio of mobile applications surpassed 45 million globally since the launch of mobile in the third quarter of 2008. The company remains on track to double eBay's mobile GMV including vehicles to over $4 billion in
2011
.
The company completed the acquisition of GSI, a leading provider of ecommerce and interactive marketing services, on June 17, 2011. GSI will operate as a stand-alone business unit. The GSI segment contributed
$23.8 million
to revenue for the period from June 17, 2011, to June 30, 2011.
Second
Quarter
2011
Financial Highlights (presented in millions, except per share data and percentages)
* Merchant Services net TPV now includes net TPV for Bill Me Later whether used within or outside of the PayPal wallet.
** Reflects net revenue attributable to the GSI segment for the period from June 17, 2011 (the date that the acquisition was completed), to June 30, 2011.
 
Other Selected Financial Results
Business Outlook
Quarterly Conference Call
eBay will host a conference call to discuss
second
quarter 2011 results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time today. A live webcast of the conference call, together with a slide presentation that includes supplemental financial information and reconciliations of certain non-GAAP measures to their nearest comparable GAAP measures, can be accessed through the company's Investor Relations website at
http://investor.ebayinc.com
. In addition, an archive of the webcast will be accessible for 90 days through the same link.
About eBay Inc.
Founded in 1995 in San Jose, Calif., eBay Inc. (NASDAQ:EBAY) is about connecting buyers and sellers. We do so through eBay, the world's largest online marketplace, which allows users to buy and sell in nearly every country on earth; through PayPal, which enables individuals and businesses to securely, easily and quickly send and receive online payments; and through GSI, which facilitates ecommerce, multichannel retailing and digital marketing for global enterprises. We also reach millions through specialized marketplaces such as StubHub, the world's largest ticket marketplace, and eBay classifieds sites, which together have a presence in more than 1,000 cities around the world. For more information about the company and its global portfolio of online brands, visit www.ebayinc.com.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release includes the following financial measures defined as non-GAAP financial measures by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC: non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate and free cash flow. These measures may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The presentation of this financial information, which is not prepared under any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles, is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. For a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to the nearest comparable GAAP measures, see Business Outlook, Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance, Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin, Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income, Reconciliation of GAAP Effective Tax Rate to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate and Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow to Free Cash Flow included in this press release.
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains forward-looking statements relating to, among other things, the future performance of eBay and its consolidated subsidiaries that are based on the company's current expectations, forecasts and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding expected financial results for the third quarter and full year 2011 and the future growth in the Payments, Marketplaces and GSI businesses. The company's actual results could differ materially from those predicted or implied and reported results should not be considered as an indication of future performance. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: global economic events, including sovereign debt uncertainties; changes in political, business and economic conditions, including any conditions that affect ecommerce growth; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the company's ability to profitably integrate, manage and grow businesses that have been acquired recently or may be acquired in the future, including GSI; the company's need to increasingly achieve growth from its existing users, particularly in its more established markets; the company's ability to deal with the increasingly competitive ecommerce environment, including competition for its sellers from other trading sites and other means of selling, and competition for its buyers from other merchants, online and offline; the company's need to manage an increasingly large enterprise with a broad range of businesses of varying degrees of maturity and in many different geographies; the effect of management changes and business initiatives; the company's need and ability to manage other regulatory, tax and litigation risks as its services are offered in more jurisdictions and applicable laws become more restrictive; any changes the company may make to its product offerings; the competitive, regulatory, credit card association-related and other risks specific to PayPal and Bill Me Later, especially as PayPal continues to expand geographically and grow its open platform initiative and as new laws and regulations related to financial services companies come into effect; the company's ability to timely upgrade and develop its systems, infrastructure and customer service capabilities, including GSI's v.11 initiative, at reasonable cost; and the company's ability to maintain site stability and performance on all of its sites while adding new products and features in a timely fashion. The forward-looking statements in this release do not include the potential impact of any acquisitions or divestitures that may be announced and/or completed after the date hereof.
More information about factors that could affect the company's operating results is included under the captions Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the company's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's Investor Relations website at
http://investor.ebayinc.com
or the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
. Undue reliance should not be placed on the forward-looking statements in this release, which are based on information available to the company on the date hereof. eBay assumes no obligation to update such statements.
 
 
eBay Inc.
Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet
 
eBay Inc.
Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Income
(2) For the three-month period ended June 30, 2011, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar, including the impact of any effective hedging activities, positively impacted net revenues by approximately
$116.7 million
and positively impacted operating income by approximately $34.4 million compared to the same period of the prior year. For the six-month period ended June 30, 2011, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar, including the impact of any effective hedging activities, positively impacted net revenues by approximately
$129.2 million
and positively impacted operating income by approximately $30.9 million compared to the same period of the prior year
.
eBay Inc.
Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 
eBay Inc.
Unaudited Summary of Consolidated Net Revenues
 
(1)
    
Net revenue attributable to the GSI segment for the three months ended June 30, 2011, reflects net revenues for the period from June 17, 2011 (the date that the acquisition was completed) to June 30, 2011.
(2)     Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies primarily based upon the country in which the seller, payment recipient, customer, website that displays advertising, or other service provider, as the case may be, is located.
eBay Inc.
Unaudited Payments Supplemental Operating Data
(1)
    
All registered accounts that successfully sent or received at least one payment or payment reversal through the PayPal system or Bill Me Later accounts that are currently able to transact and that received a statement within the last 12 months.
(2)
    
Number of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through PayPal's payments network and on Bill Me Later accounts during the quarter, excluding PayPal's payments gateway business.
(3)
    
Total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through PayPal's payments network and on Bill Me Later accounts during the quarter, excluding PayPal's payments gateway business.
(4)
    
Transaction Margin calculation has been adjusted to include total revenues (including revenue from credit) less transaction expense (including credit cost of funds) less transaction loss (including credit loan losses), divided by  global take rate (based on global  total revenues divided by total TPV).
(5)
    
The risk adjusted margin represents the annualized ratio of Bill Me Later revenue, excluding contra-revenue incentives to customers or merchants, less cost of funds, and less net credit and fraud losses relative to average loans receivable for the quarter.
(6)
    
Net charge-off rate represents the annualized ratio of Bill Me Later net credit losses relative to average loans receivable for the quarter.
(7)
    
90-day delinquency rate is the ratio of Bill Me Later end of period account balances that have missed three or more consecutive payments relative to total ending loan receivables.
eBay Inc.
Unaudited eBay Marketplaces Supplemental Operating Data
eBay's classifieds websites (including Rent.com) and Shopping.com are not included in these metrics.
 
(1)
    
All users, excluding users of Half.com, StubHub, and our Korean subsidiaries (Gmarket and eBay Auction Co.), who bid on, bought, listed or sold an item within the previous 12-month period. Users may register more than once, and as a result, may have more than one account.
(2)
    
Total value of all successfully closed items between users on eBay Marketplaces trading platforms during the quarter, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction, excluding vehicles gross merchandise volume.
(3)
    
Total value of all successfully closed vehicle transactions between users on eBay Marketplaces trading platforms during the quarter, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction.
(4)
    
Primarily, total gross merchandise volume related to eBay's Buy It Now feature on eBay Marketplaces trading platforms relative to total gross merchandise volume during the quarter.
eBay Inc.
Unaudited GSI Supplemental Operating Data
(1)
    Reflects the period from June 17, 2011 (the date that the acquisition was completed) to June 30, 2011.
(2)
    Represents the retail value of all sales transactions, inclusive of freight charges and net of allowance for returns and discounts, which flow through the GSI ecommerce services platform, whether we record the full amount of such transaction as a product sale or a percentage of such transaction as a service fee.
eBay Inc.
Business Outlook
(In Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)
The guidance figures provided below and elsewhere in this press release are forward-looking statements, reflect a number of estimates, assumptions and other uncertainties, and are approximate in nature because eBay's future performance is difficult to predict. Such guidance is based on information available on the date of this press release, and eBay assumes no obligation to update it.
eBay's future performance involves risks and uncertainties, and the company's actual results could differ materially from the information below and elsewhere in this press release. Some of the factors that could affect the company's operating results are set forth under the caption Forward-Looking Statements above in this press release. More information about factors that could affect eBay's operating results is included under the captions Risk Factors and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in its most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, copies of which may be obtained by visiting the company's investor relations website at
http://investor.ebayinc.com
or the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov
.
(a)    Estimated non-GAAP amounts above for the three months ending September 30, 2011, reflect adjustments that exclude the estimated amortization of acquired intangible assets of approximately $100-$115 million, estimated stock-based compensation expense and employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation expense of approximately $110-$130 million, and a gain from the acquisition of a business of approximately $50-$60 million.
(b)    Estimated non-GAAP amounts above for the twelve months ending December 31, 2011, reflect adjustments that exclude the estimated amortization of acquired intangible assets of approximately $315-$355 million, estimated stock-based compensation expense and employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation expense of approximately $460-$510 million, a loss on a divested business of approximately $257 million, acquisition related transaction expense of approximately $57 million, a gain on the sale of our investment in Skype of approximately $1.7 billion, and gains from the acquisition of businesses of approximately $65-$80 million.
eBay Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance
To supplement the company's condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, eBay uses non-GAAP measures of certain components of financial performance. These non-GAAP measures include non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP effective tax rate, and free cash flow.
These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with eBay's results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate eBay's results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures.
Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of all non-GAAP measures included in this press release can be found in the tables included in this press release.
These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of the company's current financial performance and the company's prospects for the future. Specifically, the company believes the non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding certain expenses, gains and losses or net purchases of property and equipment, as the case may be, that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because eBay has historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, the company believes that the inclusion of non-GAAP measures provides consistency in the company's financial reporting.
For its internal budgeting process, and as discussed further below, eBay's management uses financial measures that do not include stock-based compensation expense, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, significant gains or losses from the disposal/acquisition of a business, restructuring-related charges and the income taxes associated with the foregoing. In addition to the corresponding GAAP measures, eBay's management also uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing the financial results of eBay.
eBay excludes the following items from non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP earnings per diluted share, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP effective tax rate:
Stock-based compensation expense.
This expense consists of expenses for stock options, restricted stock and employee stock purchases. eBay excludes stock-based compensation expenses from its non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that management does not believe are reflective of ongoing operating results. eBay also excludes its proportionate share of Skype's stock-based compensation expense.
Employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation.
This amount is dependent on eBay's stock price and the timing and size of exercises by employees of their stock options and the vesting of their restricted stock, over which management has limited to no control, and as such management does not believe it correlates to eBay's operation of the business.
Amortization or impairment of acquired intangible assets, impairment of goodwill and significant gains or losses and transaction expenses from the acquisition or disposal of a business.
eBay incurs amortization or impairments of acquired intangible assets and goodwill in connection with acquisitions and may incur significant gains or losses from the acquisition or disposal of a business and therefore excludes these amounts from its non-GAAP measures. eBay also excludes its proportionate share of Skype's amortization of acquired intangibles expense. eBay also settled a legal exposure in conjunction with the acquisition of a business and excludes this settlement payment. In addition, eBay's results are also impacted by hedge transactions related to unique movements of cash from significant business acquisitions or dispositions. eBay excludes these items because management does not believe they correlate to the ongoing operating results of eBay's business.
Restructuring.
These charges consist of expenses for employee severance and other exit and disposal costs. eBay excludes restructuring charges primarily because management does not believe they are reflective of ongoing operating results.
Income taxes associated with certain non-GAAP entries.
This amount is used to present stock-based compensation and the other amounts described above on an after-tax basis consistent with the presentation of non-GAAP net income
.
In addition to the non-GAAP measures discussed above, eBay also uses free cash flow. Free cash flow represents operating cash flows less net purchases of property and equipment. eBay considers free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business after the purchases of property, buildings, and equipment, which can then be used to, among other things, invest in eBay's business, make strategic acquisitions, and repurchase stock. A limitation of the utility of free cash flow as a measure of financial performance is that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the company's cash balance for the period.
 
eBay Inc.
Reconciliation of GAAP Operating Margin to Non-GAAP Operating Margin
Reconciliation of GAAP Net Income to Non-GAAP Net Income
Reconciliation of GAAP Effective Tax Rate to Non-GAAP Effective Tax Rate
Reconciliation of Operating Cash Flow to Free Cash Flow


