FILE:APA/APA-8K-20060727123005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 27, 2006, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2006. The full text of the press release is listed and furnished under Item 9.01 as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, July 27, 2006  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported second-quarter earnings of $722 million or $2.17 per diluted common share, up 23 percent from $587 million or $1.76 per share in the prior-year period. Apache's record production, balanced product mix and higher oil prices offset a steep decline in natural gas prices since the first quarter.
     Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities totaled $1.3 billion, up from $1.1 billion in the year-earlier period. (This is a non-GAAP measure; see reconciliation below.)
     Production totaled 500,888 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day, up from 469,617 boe per day in the prior-year period and up 10 percent from the first quarter of 2006. Gas production averaged 1.6 billion cubic feet per day, up 21 percent from the prior-year period and up 15 percent from the first quarter. Apache produced 240,122 barrels of liquid hydrocarbons per day, down 5 percent from the second quarter of 2005, but a 4 percent increase from the first quarter of 2006.
     "Five of Apache's seven core areas posted production gains from the first quarter," said G. Steven Farris, president and chief executive officer. "Our balanced portfolio and product mix combined to deliver excellent results. Higher oil prices and record barrel-equivalent production more than offset the impact of lower natural gas prices on earnings and cash flow."
 
     On a barrel-equivalent basis, Apache's second-quarter production was 52 percent natural gas and 48 percent liquid hydrocarbons.
     Apache's record gas production was the result of substantially higher output from the Qasr field in Egypt, the John Brookes field in Australia, Canada and the onshore U.S. Central Region. Second-quarter results also included production resulting from the company's acquisition of Pioneer Resources' assets in Argentina, which was completed in April.
     Gulf Coast Region production in the second quarter was 20 percent below the year-earlier period as a result of continuing curtailments of platforms and infrastructure damaged by the third-quarter 2005 hurricanes. Restoration activities will continue into 2007.
     Apache's Gulf of Mexico production will get a boost in coming quarters with the June 21 closing of its acquisition of BP's producing assets in the shallow waters of the Gulf. The acquisition is expected to add net production of 3,650 barrels of oil and 85 million cubic feet of gas per day during the second half of 2006.
     "Driven by $1.7 billion of producing property acquisitions closed in the first half of the year, our continuing active drilling campaign in all of our regions and the ongoing restoration of production in the Gulf, Apache is on track to achieve 10 percent to 15 percent production growth in 2006," Farris said.
     During the second quarter, Apache announced that it has agreed to sell its 24.5 percent interest in China's producing Zhao Dong block to Australia-based ROC Oil Company Limited for $260 million.
     Also, BP has informed Apache of a required shutdown of the Forties Pipeline System in the North Sea for repairs beginning July 29, which will curtail production from Apache's Forties Field for a period of one week or longer depending on the magnitude of the repairs. Apache will move forward work activities on its Forties platforms to coincide with the pipeline shutdown.
 
     Apache received $64.35 per barrel of oil in the quarter, up 33 percent from the prior-year period and a 12 percent increase from the first quarter; and $4.97 per thousand cubic feet of gas, down 13 percent from the second quarter of 2005 and a 22 percent drop from the first quarter of 2006.
     For the first six months of 2006, Apache earned $1.4 billion or $4.14 per diluted common share, up from $1.1 billion or $3.44 in the first half of 2005. Cash from operations for the first six months totaled $2.5 billion, up from $2.1 billion in the prior-year period.
     Apache is a large oil and gas independent with operations in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom sector of the North Sea, Egypt, Australia and Argentina.
     EDITOR'S NOTE: Apache will webcast a conference call to discuss its second-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central Time, Thursday, July 27, from Apache's Web site, www.apachecorp.com. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 5 p.m. on July 27. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 2164433. The conference call will be archived on Apache's Web site.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production, operating costs, exploration and acquisition activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.
 


