FILE:APA/APA-8K-20061026113100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
The information in this Current Report is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2006, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2006. The full text of the press release is listed and furnished under Item 9.01 as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, Oct. 26, 2006  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported third-quarter earnings of $646 million or $1.94 per diluted common share as worldwide production rose to a record 513,000 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day, up 13 percent from the prior-year period. Apache earned $686 million or $2.05 per share in the prior-year period.
     Third-quarter results include a non-recurring gain of $174 million on the sale of assets in China; a $92 million, one-time prior-period adjustment reflecting increased tax rates in the United Kingdom; and a $24 million negative adjustment related to foreign currency fluctuations.
     Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities totaled $1.3 billion, up from $1.26 billion in the year-earlier period. (This is a non-GAAP measure; see reconciliation below.)
     Apache's gas production averaged 1.7 billion cubic feet (Bcf) per day, up 35 percent from the prior-year period and up 9 percent from the second quarter. Apache produced 228,551 barrels of liquid hydrocarbons per day, down 6 percent from the third quarter of 2005 and a 5 percent decline from the second quarter, as a result of the sale of the Zhao Dong field in China and shut-ins in the North Sea and Egypt.
 
     "We are pleased with Apache's progress thus far in 2006," said G. Steven Farris, president and chief executive officer. "We plowed through a lot of variables during the third quarter; despite extended shut-ins in the North Sea and Egypt and the sale of our China assets, Apache's worldwide production increased 2.4 percent from the second quarter to an all-time high of 513,000 boe per day.
     "Our North Sea production has been stable thus far in October and, barring any unforeseen events, we should exit 2006 with production rates 20 percent higher than we started the year, giving us good momentum going into 2007," Farris said.
     "We remain on track to achieve 10 to 15 percent production growth this year," Farris said. "We expect a strong finish to a record year in nearly every financial and operational aspect."
     Apache received $63.66 per barrel of oil in the quarter, up about 9 percent from the prior-year period and down 1 percent from the second quarter; and $4.83 per thousand cubic feet of gas, down 26 percent from the year-earlier period and a 3 percent drop from the second quarter of 2006.
     U.S. Central Region production increased to 265 million cubic feet (MMcf) and 31,727 barrels of liquids per day on drilling success at Stiles Ranch in the Texas Panhandle, the Red Fork and Springer formations in Western Oklahoma, and in the Permian Basin.
     Gulf Coast Region production increased to 455 MMcf of gas and 44,165 barrels of liquids per day during the third quarter as Apache took over operations on 96 platforms acquired from BP. Recovery from hurricanes Katrina and Rita is progressing, although net production of
 
3,000 barrels and 10 MMcf per day will likely remain shut-in at year end. Apache expects to recover those volumes during the first half of 2007.
     In Canada, Apache's third-quarter production was flat with the second quarter, averaging 422 MMcf and 22,613 barrels per day. Production was up 8 percent from the prior-year period on a barrel-equivalent basis.
     Although the BP pipeline shut-in impacted third-quarter production from the North Sea, the company shifted planned maintenance at the Delta platform to coincide with the pipeline shut-in. The downtime reduced the region's production by 13,000 barrels per day during the quarter. During October, gross production has averaged approximately 70,000 barrels per day.
     The North Sea Region continues to make progress on facilities upgrade projects, including the electric generation/gas and power ring project, which should result in substantial fuel savings and reliability. The first well from the Charlie platform to determine the westerly extent of the Forties Field was spudded; if successful, this project could extend the field to the west. Apache also began its North Sea exploration program.
     In Australia, Apache established a single-day gas production record of 240 MMcf and a quarterly record of 204 MMcf per day, up 11 percent from the second quarter. Apache submitted a field development plan to regulatory agencies for the Van Gogh/Theo oil field in the Exmouth area off Western Australia. The project is expected to commence production in the second half of 2008 with net production rates of 20,000 barrels per day.
     Net production in Egypt declined 3 percent from the second quarter, mainly the result of a 14-day shut-in at the Shell-operated Obayied gas processing plant and 10-day shut-ins at Apache's Salam and Tarek plants for maintenance; the shut-ins also impacted condensate production associated with the gas. However, Apache set records for gross operated production: 120,374 barrels of oil per
 
day on July 7 and 525 MMcf of gas per day on Sept. 13. Apache also drilled a new-field discovery: The Hathor Deep 1X wildcat tested 12 MMcf per day from the Alem el Buieb formation. The Qasr 34 well extended the Qasr field  already Apache's largest discovery  approximately 1.6 miles to the northwest and appraised a previously unproven area of 2,700 acres.
     Apache's operating costs increased 12 percent from the second quarter to $7.67 per boe. Costs in Canada, Australia, Egypt and Argentina were flat to lower, and Central Region costs were up slightly. North Sea operating costs were up 39 percent because they were spread over much lower volumes. Gulf Coast Region costs were up 31 percent because the focus shifted from hurricane-related activity to the backlog of workovers and maintenance.
     In China, the $174 million gain was the result of Apache's sale of its 24.5 percent interest the Zhao Dong block for $260 million.
     Apache Corporation is a discoverer and producer of oil and gas energy resources for the advancement of mankind in the interest of long-term investors seeking share appreciation.
     EDITOR'S NOTE: Apache will webcast a conference call to discuss its third-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central Time, Thursday, Oct. 26, from Apache's Web site, http://www.apachecorp.com . The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 5 p.m. on Oct. 26. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 2427547. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. To have the podcast delivered to you, sign up for Financial RSS Feeds at http://investor.apachecorp.com/rss.cfm. To be reminded of the live webcast, sign up for E-mail Alerts at http://investor.apachecorp.com/alerts.cfm.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production, operating costs, exploration and acquisition activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions and uncertainties. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements.
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.
 


