FILE:APA/APA-8K-20071025100342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 25, 2007, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
FOR RELEASE AT 7:30 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, Oct. 25, 2007  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported that record oil and gas production revenues fueled record cash flow and third-quarter earnings of $612 million, or $1.83 per diluted common share. Excluding a non-cash charge of 34 cents per share  primarily related to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on deferred tax balances  Apache's adjusted earnings* were $2.17 per share.
     Apache's third-quarter adjusted earnings were 23 percent above third-quarter 2006 adjusted earnings of $1.77 per share. Before adjustments, Apache earned $646 million or $1.94 per share in the prior-year period.
     Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities totaled a record $1.6 billion, up 25 percent from the year-earlier period.* Oil and gas revenues increased 21 percent to $2.5 billion in the third quarter.
     "Apache's strong third-quarter results demonstrated the value of our uniquely balanced portfolio," said G. Steven Farris, president and chief executive officer. "With world oil prices strengthening and North American gas prices declining from the second quarter to the third, Apache's liquid hydrocarbon production  about half of our volumes  accounted for two-thirds of our revenue."
 
     Apache received $70.43 per barrel of oil in the third quarter, up 10 percent from the prior-year period and the second quarter; and $4.99 per thousand cubic feet of gas, up 3 percent from the year-earlier period and a 9 percent drop from the second quarter.
     Apache's production totaled 561,412 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day during the third quarter, up 9 percent from the prior-year period and down slightly from the second quarter of 2007. Excluding the impact of previously announced maintenance turn-arounds in the North Sea, Apache's production was in line with its record in the second quarter of 2007. Liquid hydrocarbon production totaled 263,965 barrels per day while natural gas production averaged 1.78 billion cubic feet per day.
     "We remain on track to achieve the top end of our targeted range of 9-12 percent production growth in 2007," Farris said. "We expect a strong finish to the year in every financial and operational aspect.
     "Apache's evolving high-impact exploration portfolio in our core growth areas of Australia, Canada and Egypt resulted in two natural gas discoveries in Australia and a gas/condensate discovery in Egypt," he said. "In Canada, we continued to add acreage to our British Columbia shale resource play, where we now control about 400,000 gross (200,000 net) acres. We plan to test the economic viability of this play in earnest during our winter drilling campaign.
     "With six development projects under way that we expect will add 108,000 boe per day over the next three years, Apache has a resource base that is capable of delivering strong growth through the end of the decade," Farris said.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina.
     *Adjusted earnings and cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities are non-GAAP measures; see reconciliations below.
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its third-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central time on Thursday, Oct. 25. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site,
 
http://www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 5 p.m. on Oct. 25. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 8842910.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our 2006
Form 10-K
and on our website. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The following provides the reasons adjusted earnings is a meaningful measure:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash
from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


