FILE:APA/APA-8K-20081030092853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 30, 2008, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2008. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)      Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, Oct. 30, 2008  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported that strong crude oil and natural gas prices fueled third-quarter net income of $1.2 billion or $3.52 per diluted common share, up 94 percent from $612 million or $1.83 per share in the prior-year period.
     Third-quarter cash from operations  prior to changes in operating assets and liabilities*  totaled $2.1 billion, compared with $1.6 billion in the prior-year period.
     Third-quarter production declined 9 percent from the prior-year period and 7 percent from the second quarter to 510,672 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day. The decline was the result of two hurricanes that curtailed production in the Gulf of Mexico and onshore Louisiana and continued shut-ins following the June 3 explosion at the gas processing and transportation hub at Varanus Island in Australia. Most of the curtailed production in the Gulf and Australia is expected to be restored by year end, setting the stage for renewed growth in 2009.
     "We faced several challenges on the production side during the third quarter; we also had strong earnings, continued progress on our pipeline of development projects, and drilling success in several areas," said G. Steven Farris, Apache's president and chief executive officer.
     Three developments are expected to impact Apache's 2009 production: Two new gas processing trains are expected to commence operations in Egypt by year end, boosting net production by approximately 100 million cubic feet (MMcf) of gas and 5,000 barrels of condensate per day; the Van Gogh field in Australia is expected to contribute a net 20,000 barrels of oil per day beginning in mid- 2009; and the Geauxpher field in the Gulf of Mexico is expected to commence production during the first quarter at a net rate of approximately 50 MMcf of gas per day.
 
     Apache had notable drilling results in Egypt, where the company drilled four discoveries; at its emerging Ootla shale play in Canada; and in the North Sea, where nine new wells fueled a 25-percent increase in third-quarter production compared with the prior-year period.
     "Apache continues to show operational progress, in spite of the recent turmoil in the commodity and equity markets and the global economic slowdown," Farris said. "Although we have an abundant inventory of drillable prospects across 36 million acres, Apache intends to continue to live within our means. Our major development projects are critical to Apache's future growth  and we intend to fund them  but we will adjust other capital spending to a level that does not exceed operating cash flow."
     During the third quarter, Apache received an average of $101.04 per barrel of oil and $7.43 per thousand cubic feet of gas. Oil and gas prices were up 43 percent and 49 percent, respectively, above year-earlier levels, but both were 8 percent below second-quarter prices.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina.
 
*    Adjusted earnings and cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities are non-GAAP measures. Please see reconciliations below.
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its third-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central time on Oct. 30, 2008. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site, http://www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3 p.m. on Oct. 30. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 4705013.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our 2007
Form 10-K
and on our Web site. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The following provides the reasons adjusted earnings is a meaningful measure:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to
cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


