FILE:APA/APA-8K-20080501092027.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 1, 2008, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
     
CONTACTS:
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, May 1, 2008  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported first-quarter net income of $1.02 billion, or $3.03 per diluted common share, the company's second consecutive quarter with earnings over $1 billion and a 108-percent increase from earnings of $492 million or $1.47 per share in the prior-year period. Excluding the non-cash impact of foreign currency fluctuations on deferred tax balances, Apache's first-quarter adjusted earnings* were a record $2.99 per share, up from $1.48 per share in the prior-year period.
     First-quarter production increased 4 percent from the year-earlier period to 557,631 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day, driven by higher oil output in the United States, the North Sea and Egypt.
     Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* totaled $1.8 billion, compared with $1.2 billion in the prior-year period.
     "Apache delivered strong financial results for the first quarter and  just as important  significant exploration results in each of our ACE' core growth areas of Australia, Canada and Egypt," said G. Steven Farris, Apache's president and chief executive officer. "These successes  and the substantial inventory of wells we plan to drill in each area during 2008  will fuel the long-term reserve and production growth of the company.
     "We expect production to accelerate into the second half of 2008 with increased activity in the United States, Argentina and Canada along with first production through the Salam gas plant expansion project in Egypt," Farris said.
     Apache's discoveries included the Brulimar-1, Julimar Southeast-1 and the Halyard-1 in Australia; the Hydra-1X in Egypt, and three wells in the Muskwa Shale in the Ootla area of British Columbia.
 
     The three horizontal wells in the Ootla area test-flowed at rates of 8.8 million cubic feet (MMcf), 6.1 MMcf and 5.3 MMcf of gas per day; the wells are on production and flowing through Apache's Missile gas plant. Apache and its partner EnCana have amassed 417,000 gross acres  the largest acreage position in the emerging play.
     In Egypt, Apache received approval to build a third gas processing train with capacity of 100 MMcf per day. "We now project that our inventory of development projects will add 135,000 boe per day net to Apache's interests by the end of 2012," Farris said.
 
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its first-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central time on May 1, 2008. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site, http://www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3 p.m. on May 1. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 8602447.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our 2007
Form 10-K
and on our Web site. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The following provides the reasons adjusted earnings is a meaningful measure:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to
cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


