FILE:APA/APA-8K-20080207095932.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On February 7, 2008, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, Feb. 7, 2008  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported record 2007 earnings of $2.8 billion, or $8.39 per diluted common share, driven by record production and higher oil and natural gas prices. Apache earned $2.5 billion or $7.64 per share in 2006. Excluding the non-cash impact of foreign currency fluctuations and tax rate changes on deferred tax balances, Apache's 2007 adjusted earnings* were $8.65 per share or 25 percent above 2006 adjusted earnings.
     In the fourth quarter, Apache's net income doubled to $1.07 billion, or $3.19 per share, from $519 million, or $1.56 per share, in the prior-year period. Apache's fourth-quarter adjusted earnings were $2.92 per share, up from $1.40 per share in the prior-year period.
     "Apache had a record year in 2007 by virtually all financial and operational yardsticks," said G. Steven Farris, president and chief executive officer. "In addition to record earnings, Apache achieved these record results:
 
     "With exploration success at the Julimar complex in Australia, discoveries in Egypt, and encouraging results at the Ootla shale play in northern British Columbia, we built tremendous momentum that set the stage for 2008," Farris said.
     "We have the largest portfolio of quality exploration prospects in the 53-year history of the company, with significant exploration drilling programs planned in our ACE' core growth areas of Australia, Canada and Egypt. We also have six major development projects that are expected to add production of more than 100,000 boe per day by 2011," he said.
     Recent developments in international gas markets are expected to contribute to Apache's future results. Natural gas prices for new contracts in Australia have climbed from less than $2 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) to $7 or higher in the past year as demand has grown from the domestic mining industry and the liquefied natural gas export market. Apache's Reindeer and Julimar discoveries will be coming to market in this new environment.
     In Argentina, Apache's fourth-quarter natural gas price of $1.60 per Mcf was the highest quarterly realization since Apache began operations in the country and a 72-percent increase from the third quarter.
     Apache added 343 million boe of reserves from all sources in 2007. The company spent $5.25 billion on exploration and development and acquisitions, excluding asset retirement obligations and capitalized interest.
     Apache will redirect capital spending in Canada as a result of Alberta's recently announced changes in royalty rates. Activity in Alberta will be limited and refocused on shallow gas opportunities which were not affected by the royalty changes, and activity will increase at the Ootla shale play in British Columbia. Medium-depth gas and oil drilling activities in Alberta will be reduced.
     Although liquid hydrocarbons represented about 47 percent of Apache's 2007 production, liquids provided 65 percent of revenues because global oil prices outpaced natural gas prices. Apache received
 
$68.84 per barrel of oil in 2007, up from $59.92 per barrel in 2006, and $5.34 per Mcf of gas compared with $5.17 per Mcf in the prior year. In the fourth quarter, Apache received $83 per barrel of oil and $5.65 per Mcf of gas.
     Apache Corporation discovers and produces oil and gas in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom sector of the North Sea, Egypt, Australia and Argentina.
     *Adjusted earnings and cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities are non-GAAP measures. Please see reconciliations below.
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its fourth-quarter and full-year 2007 results at 11 a.m. Central Time on Thursday, Feb. 7. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site, http://www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3 p.m. on Feb. 7. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 4030561.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our 2006
Form 10-K
and on our Web site. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The following provides the reasons adjusted earnings is a meaningful measure:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash
from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.
 
OIL (Mbbls)
GAS (MMcf)
TOTAL MBOE
 
Reserve Additions (MBOE)
Costs Incurred (In thousands)


