FILE:APA/APA-8K-20080731090402.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
On July 31, 2008, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, July 31, 2008  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported that high crude oil and natural gas prices fueled record quarterly net income of $1.4 billion or $4.28 per diluted common share, a 128-percent increase from $632 million or $1.89 per share in the prior-year period.
     Second-quarter cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* totaled $2.3 billion, compared with $1.5 billion in the prior-year period, and surpassed the record of $1.9 billion set in the fourth quarter of 2007.
     Second-quarter production declined 3.6 percent from the prior-year period and 1 percent from the first quarter to 551,600 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day. The decline is primarily the result of an explosion that disrupted operations at the gas processing and transportation hub at Varanus Island in Australia as well as a strike at a refinery in Scotland that shut in production from all of the fields on the Forties Pipeline System, including Apache's Forties Field.
     "The second quarter was highlighted by record financial results, continued exploration success, and sustained progress in delivering our pipeline of development projects," said G. Steven Farris, Apache's president and chief executive officer. "Despite the challenges we faced during the quarter, we remain positive about the long-term outlook. Driven by successful drilling programs and seven development projects that are expected to add 135,000 boe per day to worldwide net production over the next four years, we are confident Apache is entering a period of accelerating production growth in 2009-2012."
 
Apache's second-quarter net income surges to $1.4 billion or $4.28 per share Page 2
     Drilling highlights included:
     In Egypt, Apache expects to commence production through the Salam gas plant expansion in October. The gas plant project  one element of Apache's development pipeline  is forecasted to contribute additional net production of 100 million cubic feet (MMcf) of gas and 5,000 barrels of condensate per day by the end of the year.
     "At Varanus Island, we will resume partial gas sales over the next few days," Farris said. "The initial rate is expected to be 110 MMcf per day; later in August, we expect production to increase to 220 MMcf per day.
     "We want to assure the citizens of Western Australia that Apache understands the hardship that they have experienced and that fully restoring production is our highest priority," Farris said.
     "We are confident that Apache will overcome the temporary setbacks in Australia and the North Sea and will register its 29th annual production increase in the last 30 years," Farris said.
     During the second quarter, Apache received an average of $110.32 per barrel of oil  up 72 percent from the prior-year period  and $8.09 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of gas, up 47 percent.
 
Apache's second-quarter net income surges to $1.4 billion or $4.28 per share Page 3
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina.
     *Adjusted earnings and cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities are non-GAAP measures. Please see reconciliations below.
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its first-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central time on July 31, 2008. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site, http://www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3 p.m. on July 31. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 5011412.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our 2007
Form 10-K
and on our Web site. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The following provides the reasons adjusted earnings is a meaningful measure:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to
cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


