FILE:APA/APA-8K-20090218092423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     Apache Corporation ("Apache") announced that Mr. G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer, formed an office of the chief executive with three key executives reporting to him. Messrs. Roger B. Plank, John A. Crum and Rodney J. Eichler were appointed to new positions effective as of February 12, 2009. Mr. Plank will serve as president, Mr. Crum will serve as co-chief operating officer and president  North America, and Mr. Eichler will serve as co-chief operating officer and president  International. Although Messrs. Plank, Crum and Eichler have separate functional responsibilities, they will have joint and equal roles in the daily decision-making and direction of Apache. Mr. Farris will continue to serve as chairman and chief executive officer of Apache and has resigned from his positions of president and chief operating officer of Apache effective February 12, 2009.
     Mr. Plank, 52, previously served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of Apache since May 2000 and as vice president and chief financial officer from July 1997 until May 2000. In his new role as president, he will continue to serve as Apache's principal financial officer. Having joined Apache in 1981, Mr. Plank previously served as vice president  planning and corporate development, vice president  corporate planning, vice president  external affairs, and vice president  corporate communications. Mr. Plank is a past president of Texas Independent Producers and Royalty Owners Association (TIPRO), a large independent trade association. He is a trustee of Ucross Foundation, a Wyoming non-profit corporation, and a director of Parker Drilling Company, Houston, Texas, and chairman of its audit committee. The retired chairman of Apache's board of directors, Raymond Plank, is his father.
     Mr. Crum, 56, previously served as executive vice president of Apache since May 2000 and as president of Apache Canada Ltd since June 2007. Mr. Crum served as Apache's executive vice president  Apache North Sea from April 2003 to June 2006, executive vice president  Eurasia and New Ventures from May 2000 to March 2003, and regional vice president in Australia from 1995 to 2000. Prior to joining Apache, he served in executive and management roles with Aquila Energy Resources Corporation, Pacific Enterprises Oil Company, and Southland Royalty Company.
     Mr. Eichler, 59, previously served as executive vice president of Apache since February 2003 and as the regional vice president in Egypt from May 1999 until February 2003, and vice president of exploration and production in Egypt since 1997. Prior to that, Mr. Eichler was regional vice president for the Western region in Houston since 1996, and regional exploration and development manager for the Rocky Mountain region in Denver since 1993. Prior to joining Apache, he was vice president-exploration for Axem Resources, LLC in Denver, Colorado, since 1989. Mr. Eichler is president and a director of Springboard  Educating the Future, a Texas non-profit corporation that builds schools for girls in Egypt.
     On February 12, 2009, the annual salary of each of Messrs. Plank, Crum and Eichler was increased to $625,000 from $575,000, $420,000 and $390,000, respectively. Also, in order to retain their services and provide incentive for their future contributions to Apache, on February 12, 2009, each of Messrs. Plank, Crum and Eichler was awarded 62,500 restricted stock units
 
pursuant to Apache's 2007 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan. 12,500 of such restricted stock units will vest on each of April 1, 2010, February 12, 2011, February 12, 2012, February 11, 2013 and February 11, 2014. Upon vesting, Apache will issue one share of Apache's common stock as settlement for each restricted stock unit. 7,500 of the shares vesting each year for each recipient will be subject to the restriction that none of such 7,500 shares will be eligible for sale by the recipient until such time as he retires or otherwise terminates employment with Apache. A form of the restricted stock unit agreement is included as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
     The information set forth under the caption "Certain Business Relationships and Transactions" in Apache's Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on March 31, 2008 is incorporated herein by reference with the following updates. During 2008, Apache and its subsidiaries made donations of $131,000 in cash, property and services to Springboard. Apache and its subsidiaries made donations of $649,000, in cash, property and services, to Ucross Foundation in 2008. An Apache subsidiary also paid $39,000 to Ucross Foundation during 2008 for the lease of land and other services.
     A copy of the press release dated February 17, 2009 is furnished herewith as an exhibit to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
1
 
          This Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (this "Agreement"), dated as of the Award Date set forth in the Notice of Restricted Stock Unit Award attached as hereto (the "Award Notice") is made between Apache Corporation (the "Company") and the Participant named in the Award Notice. The Award Notice is included in and made part of this Agreement.
Schedule A
          All capitalized terms contained in this Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to those terms by the Plan, unless otherwise indicated herein.
          1. . Subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Apache Corporation 2007 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), the Company hereby awards to the Participant, pursuant to the Plan, a right to receive the number of shares of $0.625 par value Common Stock of the Company ("Shares") set forth in the Award Notice.
Award of Restricted Stock Units
          2. . The Participant's right to receive the Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by book entry registration (or by such other manner as the Committee may determine).
Evidence of Units
          3. . 7,500 of the Shares vesting each year pursuant to this Agreement and the Plan shall be subject to the restriction that none of such shares shall be eligible to be sold by the Participant until such time as the Participant retires or otherwise terminates employment with the Company. The remaining 5,000 Shares vesting each year shall vest free of restrictions, except those, if any, required by applicable securities laws, and may be sold at any time to pay taxes or for other reasons. Certificates representing the restricted 7,500 Shares issued each year will bear all legends required by law or by the Company or its counsel as necessary or advisable to effectuate the provisions of the Plan and this Award including the following restrictive legend:
Restrictions
THE SHARES REPRESENTED BY THIS CERTIFICATE ARE SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED IN A RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT DATED AS OF FEBRUARY 12, 2009, BY AND BETWEEN APACHE CORPORATION AND , A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE AT THE OFFICE OF THE CORPORATE SECRETARY OF THE COMPANY.
[NAME]
          4. . The Company may place a "stop transfer" order against shares of the Common Stock issued pursuant to this Award until all restrictions and conditions set forth in the Plan or this Agreement and in the legends referred to in Section 3 have been complied with. The stock transfer records of the Company will reflect stock transfer instructions with respect to such shares.
Certificates
2
 
          5. . Any stock certificates issued pursuant to this Agreement shall be held by the Corporate Secretary of the Company until all restrictions thereon have lapsed or until the Committee authorizes the release.
Custody
          6. . Subject to earlier settlement or forfeiture as provided in Section 9 and any deferral election under Section 8, Restricted Stock Units awarded hereunder shall vest in accordance with the following table.
Vesting and Settlement
The Restricted Stock Units shall be settled in an equivalent number of shares of Common Stock on the date on which such Restricted Stock Units vest. The Company shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock if counsel to the Company determines that such sale or delivery would violate any applicable law or any rule or regulation of any governmental authority or any rule or regulation of, or agreement of the Company with, any securities exchange or association upon which the Common Stock is listed or quoted. The Company shall in no event be obligated to take any affirmative action in order to cause the delivery of shares of Common Stock to comply with any such law, rule, regulation or agreement.
          7. The company will pay to the Participant an amount equivalent to any cash dividends declared on the Common Stock as soon as administratively practicable after the payment date for such dividend, in proportion to the number of unvested Restricted Stock Units as of the record date for such dividend, with the following exception. Any such payments that would be made before March 12, 2010 shall instead be accumulated and paid as soon as administratively practicable after on the earliest of the following dates, but only if the Participant is still employed by the Company on such date: March 12, 2010; the date of the Participant's death; the date the Committee determines the Participant is Disabled; or the date of a Change of Control that is described in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code. If the participant is not employed by the Company on such date, the accumulated payments shall be forfeited.
Dividend Equivalent Payments.
          8. . The Participant may, within 30 days of the Award Date and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Deferred Plan, elect to defer receipt of Shares that would otherwise be issued on a Vesting Date in settlement of all or any part of a Tranche of Restricted Stock Units. If the Participant makes such an election, effective as of the applicable Vesting Date, each Restricted Stock Unit so deferred shall thereafter be a Stock Unit (as defined in the Deferred Plan) and settlement of the Stock Units shall be in accordance with the Deferred Plan except that the restrictions in Section 3 shall continue to apply to any shares of
Deferral Election
3
 
Common Stock issued in settlement of the Stock Units until such restrictions would have expired had such shares been issued in settlement of the Restricted Stock Units. Any such deferral of less than 100 percent of the Shares shall apply on a pro rata basis to both Shares subject to the restriction against sales and those Shares not subject to restriction.
          9. . Except as set forth below, this Agreement and each Award shall be subject to the condition that the Participant has remained an Eligible Employee from the initial award of an Award until the applicable Vesting Date as follows:
Termination of Employment, Death, Disability, etc
          (a) If the Participant voluntarily leaves the employment of the Company (but not for Good Reason) or is terminated by the Company for Cause before an applicable Vesting Date, all Restricted Stock Units not already vested shall be immediately cancelled.
          (b) If the Participant dies or becomes Disabled before an applicable Vesting Date, the Restricted Stock Units that would have vested at the next Vesting Date shall thereupon vest, the restrictions in Section 3 shall lapse and the then vested Restricted Stock Units shall be settled as soon as administratively practicable following the date the Participant dies or becomes Disabled. Any Restricted Stock Units not already vested or vested by reason of death or Disability shall be immediately cancelled. If the Participant dies before settlement, settlement shall be made to the beneficiary designated for this purpose in the manner prescribed by the Committee, or, if there is no such beneficiary, to the estate of the Participant.
          (c) If, before March 12, 2010, the Participant is terminated by the Company without Cause and not by reason of becoming Disabled or if the Participant terminates his employment for Good Reason, then all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be cancelled. If, after March 11, 2010, the Participant is terminated by the Company without Cause and not by reason of becoming Disabled or if the Participant terminates his employment for Good Reason, then all Restricted Stock Units shall thereupon vest, the restrictions in Section 3 shall lapse, and, subject to the terms of the Deferred Plan, if applicable, the Restricted Stock Units shall be settled as soon as administratively practicable following the date the Participant's employment is terminated.
          (d) Notwithstanding Section 12 of the Plan or subsections 9(a), 9(b), or 9(c), if the Participant is employed by the Company when a Change of Control that is described in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code occurs, any unvested Restricted Stock Units shall vest, the restrictions in Section 3 shall lapse, and settlement of the newly vested Restricted Stock Units shall occur on the date of such Change of Control or as soon thereafter as is administratively practicable.
For purposes of this Agreement,
          "Cause" means the Participant's willful failure to perform his duties after a demand for performance is delivered to him by the Company's board of directors that specifically states the manner in which the board believes the Participant has not performed his duties; the Participant's willful gross misconduct materially injurious to the Company; or the
4
 
Participant's violation of a direct order of the board of directors or the executive committee of the board. An act or omission is "willful" if it is done in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the act or omission was in the Company's interests.
          "Disabled" means the Participant is expected by the Committee to both (i) become entitled to long-term disability payments under the Company's long-term disability plan then in effect and (ii) be unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that is expected to result in death or is expected to last for a continuous period of at least one year.
          "Good Reason" means a material diminution in the Participant's responsibilities or duties or a material diminution in the Participant's base compensation unless the base compensation of other senior officers of the Company is also reduced proportionately.
          . The Committee may make such provisions as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of any taxes that it determines is required in connection with this Award. The Participant may pay all or any portion of the taxes required to be withheld by the Company or paid by the Participant in connection with all or any portion of this Award by delivering cash or by electing to have the Company withhold shares of Common Stock that would have otherwise been delivered to Participant having a Fair Market Value determined by the Committee in accordance with the Plan, equal to the amount required to be withheld or paid.
Payment and Tax Withholding
          10. The Committee may make such provisions as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of any taxes that it determines is required in connection with this Award. The Participant may pay all or any portion of the taxes required to be withheld by the Company or paid by the Participant in connection with all or any portion of this Award by delivering cash or by electing to have the Company withhold shares of Common Stock that would have otherwise been delivered to Participant having a Fair Market Value determined by the Committee in accordance with the plan, equal to the amount required to be withheld or paid.
Payment of Tax and Withholding.
          11. . Neither the Participant nor any other person shall become the beneficial owner of the Shares underlying the Restricted Stock Units, nor have any rights of a shareholder (including, without limitation, dividend and voting rights) with respect to any such Shares, unless and until and after such Shares have vested.
No Ownership Rights Prior to Issuance of Shares
          12. . Subject to the conditions and exceptions set forth in Deferred Plan, if elected, and Section 14.2 of the Plan, the Restricted Stock Units (and, while subject to the restrictions in Section 3, the Shares) shall not be transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or to a trust for estate planning purposes or a family partnership.
Non-Transferability of Restricted Stock Units
          13. . Neither the Restricted Stock Units nor any terms contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Participant any express or implied right to be retained in the employment or service of the Company or any Affiliate for any period, nor restrict in any way the right of the Company or any Affiliate, which right is hereby expressly reserved, to terminate the Participant's employment or service at any time for any reason. The Participant acknowledges and agrees that any right to have restrictions on the
No Right to Continued Employment
5
 
Restricted Stock Units lapse is earned only by continuing as an employee of the Company or an Affiliate at the will of the Company or such Affiliate, or satisfaction of any other applicable terms and conditions contained in the Plan and this Agreement, and not through the act of being hired, being Awarded the Restricted Stock Units or acquiring Shares hereunder.
          14. . In consideration for this award of Restricted Stock Units, the Participant agrees to comply with the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. This Agreement is subject to all the terms, provisions and conditions of the Plan, a copy of which is attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, and to such regulations and administrative interpretations thereunder as may from time to time be adopted by the Committee. Unless defined herein, capitalized terms are used herein as defined in the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall control, and this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified accordingly.
The Plan
          15. . All notices by the Participant or the Participant's assignees may be made only in the following manner, using such forms as the Company may from time to time provide:
Notices
          (e) by first class registered or certified United States mail, postage prepaid, to Apache Corporation, Attn: Corporate Secretary, 2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77056;
          (f) by hand delivery to or Apache Corporation, Attn: Corporate Secretary, 2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77056; or
          (g) by such other means, including by electronic means or by facsimile, as provided by the Committee.
          All notices to the Participant shall be addressed to the Participant at the Participant's address in the Company's records.
          Any notices provided for in this Agreement or in the Plan shall be deemed effectively delivered or given upon receipt of such notice.
          16. . The Participant acknowledges that any income derived from the Restricted Stock Units shall not affect the Participant's participation in, or benefits under, any other benefit plan or other contract or arrangement maintained by the Company or any Affiliate.
Other Plans
          17. . The Plan is a discretionary plan. The Participant hereby acknowledges that neither the Plan nor this Agreement forms part of his terms of employment and nothing in the Plan may be construed as imposing on the Company or any Affiliate a contractual obligation to offer participation in the Plan to any employee of the Company or any Affiliate. The Company or any Affiliate is under no obligation to award further Shares to any Participant under the Plan.
Terms of Employment
          18. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement is intended to provide for a grant of deferred compensation that is exempt from or compliant with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations and United States Department of the Treasury
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code
6
 
pronouncements ("Section 409A"). Any ambiguous provisions will be construed in a manner so that this Award is either compliant with or exempt from the application of Section 409A. If a provision of this Agreement would result in the imposition of an applicable tax under Section 409A, such provision may be reformed to avoid imposition of the applicable tax.
          , the Company and Participant have executed this Agreement on the 17th day of February, 2009. The Agreement is effective as of February 12, 2009.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
7

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACTS:
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, Feb. 17, 2009  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) announced that G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer, formed an office of the chief executive with three key executives reporting to him.
     "These organizational changes reflect the natural evolution in Apache's continued growth," Farris said. "Although Roger, John and Rod have separate functional responsibilities, they will have joint and equal roles in the daily decision making and direction of the company."
     Plank has been an executive vice president of the corporation since 2000. In addition to his current responsibilities, Plank will lead the Business Development, Internal Audit, and Policy and Governance groups.
     Plank joined Apache in 1981 after receiving a bachelor's degree in economics from Colgate University in Hamilton, New York, and his master's in business administration from the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota. Previously, he led the Planning, Corporate Development, and Corporate Communications functions. Plank is a member of the board of directors of Parker Drilling Company and
 
chairs its audit committee. His civic activities include serving on the board of Wyoming's Ucross Foundation, which benefits artists and writers, and as president of Houston's Alley Theatre.
     Crum was named executive vice president in 2000. Previously, he led the company's Australia and North Sea regions. He will lead the Gulf Coast, Central and Canada regions as well was the Worldwide Drilling, corporate EH&S and Purchasing groups.
     Prior to joining the company in 1995, Crum served in executive and management roles with Aquila Energy Resources Corp., Pacific Enterprises Oil Co., and Southland Royalty Co. He holds a bachelor's degree in petroleum engineering from the New Mexico Institute of Mining and Technology. Crum served as chairman of the Australian Petroleum Production and Exploration Association and is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.
     Eichler, an executive vice president since 2000, has headed Apache's Egyptian operations since 1997. Prior to that, he was regional vice president for the Western Region in Houston and regional exploration and development manager for the Rocky Mountain region in Denver. He will lead the North Sea, Egypt, Australia and Argentina regions.
     Prior to joining Apache, Eichler was vice president, exploration for Axem Resources, LLC in Denver. He received his bachelor's and master's degrees in geological engineering from the Colorado School of Mines. He is a member of the American Association of Petroleum Geologists and is a certified professional geologist and a registered professional engineer in the state of Texas. He is president and a director of Springboard  Educating the Future, a non-profit corporation that funded construction of 200 schools for girls in Egypt's rural villages.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina.
     EDITOR'S NOTE: Photographs of Plank, Crum and Eichler are available at Apache's Web site, .
http://www.apachecorp.com/Library/Photos/Gallery_Thumbnails/?gallery=134


