FILE:APA/APA-8K-20090730085808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 30, 2009, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2009. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, July 30, 2009  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported record worldwide oil and natural gas production of 587,400 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day in the second quarter, up 7.1 percent from the first quarter and 6.5 percent from the prior-year period.
     Apache reported net income of $443 million, or $1.31 per diluted common share, compared with $1.4 billion, or $4.28 per share, in the prior-year period. Second-quarter cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* totaled $1.26 billion, compared with $2.3 billion in the prior-year period.
     Apache's second-quarter adjusted earnings,* which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of operating results, totaled $474 million, or $1.41 per share, compared to adjusted earnings of $1.44 billion, or $4.28 per share, in the prior-year period.
     "The strength of Apache's geological and geographical diversity, along with our balanced product mix, fueled our second-quarter results," said G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer.
     "Initial production from development projects in the Gulf of Mexico and the Western Desert of Egypt, combined with rebounding oil prices, more than offset the continuing deterioration of North American natural gas prices during the quarter," he said. "With continued drilling successes in Egypt, the Gulf and the North Sea, Apache has strong momentum going into the second half of the year."
     Oil production comprised 48 percent of Apache's worldwide output, but 72 percent of oil and gas revenues. The company's oil and gas revenue per boe increased 19 percent from the first quarter. Apache received an average of $58.15 per barrel of oil, up 37 percent from the first quarter, and $3.48 per
 
thousand cubic feet of gas, down 9 percent from the first quarter. Prices for both commodities were substantially below year-earlier levels.
     "Our regions' focus on driving down lifting costs has resulted in lower costs on a boe basis for two quarters in a row, including a 6-percent decline from the first quarter to the second," Farris said.
     Recent drilling and operational highlights included:
 
     "Apache's strong financial position  with debt at 25 percent of capitalization and $772 million of cash on the balance sheet  provides many avenues for continued growth, either through our deep inventory of drilling prospects or through acquisitions," Farris said.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina.
 
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its second-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central time on Thursday, July 30. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site, http://www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3 p.m. on July 30. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 4860120.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our most recently filed Annual Report on
Form 10-K
, on our Web site and in our other public filings and press releases. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results and are meaningful for the following reasons:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


