FILE:APA/APA-8K-20091029084911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 29, 2009, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
CONTACTS:
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, Oct. 29, 2009  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported that for the first time average worldwide production surpassed 600,000 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day during the third quarter, increasing 3.4 percent from the second quarter and 19 percent from the prior-year period.
     "Apache's regional growth drivers put the company on track for record production and solid financial results in 2009, and we will enter 2010 with strong momentum, including two development projects in Australia that should add 40,000 barrels of oil per day to worldwide output when they commence operations in the first half," said G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer.
     The company produced 607,118 boe per day in the third quarter. Liquid hydrocarbons production averaged 297,997 barrels per day, up 2 percent from the second quarter. Gas production averaged 1.85 billion cubic feet per day, up 5 percent from the second quarter.
     Apache reported net income of $441 million, or $1.30 per diluted common share, compared with $1.2 billion, or $3.52 per share, in the prior-year period. Third-quarter cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* totaled $1.3 billion, compared with $2.1 billion in the prior-year period.
     Apache's third-quarter adjusted earnings,* which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of operating results, totaled $534 million, or $1.58 per share, compared to adjusted earnings of $1.1 billion, or $3.19 per share, in the prior-year period.
     Apache had approximately $1.4 billion in cash at the end of the third quarter. Debt was 24.7 percent of total capitalization.
 
     Third-quarter operational highlights included:
     Projects that will drive Apache's growth in 2010 include:
 
     Apache also took steps to build its pipeline of long-term growth projects.
     "Apache's diverse asset base comprises a mix of near-term investments with a pipeline of impactive projects that provide a foundation for solid long-term growth," Farris said.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina.
 
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its third-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central time on Thursday, Oct. 29. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site, http://www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3
 
p.m. on Oct. 29. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 9353473.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our most recently filed Annual Report on
Form 10-K
, on our Web site and in our other public filings and press releases. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results and are meaningful for the following reasons:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


