FILE:APA/APA-8K-20090219091259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 19, 2009, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter and year ended December 31, 2008. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR RELEASE AT 7:45 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
     Houston, Feb. 19, 2009  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported net income of $706 million or $2.09 per diluted common share for the year ended Dec. 31, 2008. Apache's results include a $3.6-billion non-cash, after-tax reduction in the carrying value of its oil and gas properties stemming from significantly lower commodity prices at year-end 2008.
     Apache's 2008 adjusted earnings,* which exclude the write-down and certain other items that impact the comparability of operating results, totaled $3.8 billion, or $11.22 per share. In 2007, Apache reported net income of $2.8 billion or $8.39 per share and adjusted earnings of $2.9 billion or $8.66 per share.
     In the fourth quarter, Apache reported a net loss of $2.9 billion, or $8.80 per common share, also reflecting the $3.6-billion non-cash, after-tax charge. Apache's fourth-quarter adjusted earnings totaled $276 million, or 82 cents per share. In the prior-year period, Apache reported net income of $1.07 billion, or $3.19 per share and adjusted earnings of $1 billion or $2.92 per share.
     Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* totaled $7.4 billion, up from $6.2 billion in 2007. Fourth-quarter cash from operations totaled $1.1 billion, down from $1.9 billion from the year-earlier period.
     "Certainly, the magnitude of the write-down is large; however, considering oil prices have collapsed from a peak of more than $140 per barrel for West Texas Intermediate at mid-year to less than $45 per barrel at year-end, it was not unexpected," said G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer. "This is a non-cash event that we expect will have no impact on our operations or financial flexibility."
 
     "The important news going forward is that Apache exited 2008 with a debt-to-capitalization ratio of 23 percent, more than $1.5 billion in available cash and short-term investments, and $2.3 billion in available credit facilities," Farris said. "With a number of development projects coming on line in the first half of 2009, we are projecting production growth of 6 to 14 percent in 2009, depending on capital availability. We are striving to keep our discretionary spending in line with 2009 cash flow to retain our financial flexibility."
     In 2008, production declined 5 percent to 534,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day as a result of the June 3 pipeline explosion and fire at Apache's Varanus Island hub offshore Western Australia as well as the impact of two hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico. Had those events not occurred, 2008 production would have increased 2 percent.
     Apache produced 1.6 billion cubic feet (Bcf) of natural gas and 265,000 barrels of liquid hydrocarbons per day in 2008, compared with 1.8 Bcf and 262,000 barrels per day in 2007. In the fourth quarter, Apache produced 1.5 Bcf of gas per day and 262,000 barrels of liquid hydrocarbons per day.
     Varanus Island production is expected to be near pre-incident levels in the first quarter, but significant production volumes remain off-line in the Gulf because repairs of third-party pipelines have not been completed.
     Apache replaced 122 percent of production in 2008, including 118 percent through drilling. However, 2008 proved reserves declined 2 percent to 2.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent as a result of a 2.6-percent negative reserve revision associated with low commodity prices at year-end. Absent the revisions, Apache would have recorded its 23rd consecutive year of reserve growth.
     Nearly all of the reserve revisions were in fields located in North America, including U.S. oil fields with long-lived reserves, fields subject to the Alberta government's new royalty scheme, and high-cost shallow gas fields in Canada. The negative revisions in North America were partially offset by increased reserves from drilling in Egypt.
 
     Apache's current 2009 exploration and development budget of $3.5 billion to $4 billion is based on cash-flow estimates that are predicated on benchmark prices of $4.50 per thousand cubic feet of gas and $40 per barrel of oil.
     "If the current downward trend in commodity prices continues, we may scale back spending even more, and our production growth likely will land in the bottom half of our projected range," Farris said.
     Strong production growth from several development projects is expected to more than offset generally declining production in North America that will be the result of lower capital spending.
     "Apache entered this downturn with a low debt-to-capitalization ratio and nearly $4 billion in financial resources, providing us with significant staying power in an uncertain environment," Farris said. "Right now, the most important thing is to protect our balance sheet by not outspending our operating cash flow.
     "We've been through down' cycles before. Although these periods are painful, they ultimately present excellent acquisition opportunities," Farris said. "We are well-positioned entering 2009, with
 
projected production growth and ample liquidity to pursue transactions. I expect Apache will emerge an even stronger company when the cycle turns."
Full-cost ceiling test
     Apache uses the full-cost method of accounting. The company is required to perform a calculation that establishes a ceiling on the carrying costs of its oil and gas properties in each country at the end of each quarter. The ceiling is the calculated present value of estimated future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves, using a 10-percent discount rate, plus the lower of the cost or fair value of unproved properties, net of related tax effects. The rules generally require pricing future production at oil and gas prices in effect at the end of the quarter. If the ceiling is exceeded, a non-cash write-down is required. The calculation does not allow for consideration of possible or probable reserves or expected future trends in commodity prices or drilling and service costs.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina. From time to time, Apache posts announcements, updates and investor information, in addition to copies of all press releases, on its Web site, www.apachecorp.com.
     *Adjusted earnings and cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities are non-GAAP measures. Please see reconciliations below.
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its fourth-quarter and full-year 2008 results at 1 p.m. Central Time on Thursday, Feb. 19. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site, www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3 p.m. on Feb. 19. To access the telephone playback, dial (719) 457-0820 and provide Apache's confirmation code, 1248797.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation,
 
expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our most recently filed Annual Report on
Form 10-K
, on our Web site and in our other public filings and press releases. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings excludes certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results. The following provides the reasons adjusted earnings is a meaningful measure:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.
 
OIL (Mbbl)
GAS (Mmcf)
TOTAL BOE (Mboe)
 
Reserve Additions (BOE's)
Costs Incurred


