FILE:APA/APA-8K-20101104103612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 4, 2010, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2010. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
     Houston, Nov. 4, 2010  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today reported net income of $765 million, up 74 percent from $441 million in the prior-year period. Apache earned $2.12 per diluted common share in the third quarter compared with $1.30 per share in the year-earlier quarter.
     Worldwide production increased 10 percent from the year-earlier quarter to 667,460 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day.
     Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* totaled $2 billion in the third quarter, up from $1.3 billion in the prior-year period. Apache's third-quarter adjusted earnings,* which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of operating results, totaled $791 million or $2.19 per share, up from $534 million or $1.58 per share in the year-earlier period.
     Third-quarter production averaged 358,475 barrels of liquid hydrocarbons and 1.85 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day, both up 3 percent from the second quarter of 2010. Apache's operations outside North America accounted for 54 percent of worldwide production. Liquids sales  crude oil and natural gas liquids  were 54 percent of worldwide production and 78 percent of revenue. Including the impact of hedging activities, Apache realized an average of $74.14 per barrel of oil, down slightly from the second quarter, and $4.01 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf) of natural gas, unchanged from the second quarter.
     "Apache's portfolio balance again contributed to strong operational and financial results in the third quarter," said G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer. "In Australia, the Pyrenees and Van Gogh developments of Apache's Exmouth Basin oil discoveries continued to make significant
 
contributions. We also had higher production in the Permian Basin and Gulf of Mexico as a result of recent acquisitions that will continue to fuel Apache's growth.
     "Apache's focus is on integrating operations and building additional value from the assets acquired this year in the Gulf of Mexico, Permian Basin and western Canada as well as our previously announced acquisition in Egypt, which we expect will close during the fourth quarter," Farris said. "We also are continuing our high-impact exploration programs in Australia and Egypt.
     "In December, after the acquisition activity is expected to be completed, we forecast production to exceed 775,000 boe per day, or 35 percent above the December 2009 level," Farris said.
     Apache's third-quarter results include production from Gulf Shelf assets acquired from Devon Energy Corp. in the second quarter as well as the partial-quarter impact of the acquisition of BP's oil and gas operations, acreage and infrastructure in the Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico on Aug. 10.
     Apache's subsidiary, Apache Canada Ltd., completed its acquisition of substantially all of BP's upstream natural gas business in western Alberta and British Columbia on Oct. 8.
     Apache also expects to close the previously announced merger with Mariner Energy upon approval of Mariner's shareholders at a special meeting scheduled Nov. 10. Mariner is an independent producer with operations in the Gulf of Mexico, the Gulf Coast and the Permian Basin.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina.
     Apache posts announcements, updates and investor information, in addition to all press releases, on its website, .
www.apachecorp.com
     *Adjusted earnings and cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities are non-GAAP measures. Please see reconciliations below. For supplemental and non-GAAP information, please go to .
www.apachecorp.com/financialinfo
 
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its third-quarter results at 1 p.m. Central time on Thursday, Nov. 4. The third-quarter conference call will be webcast from Apache's website, http://www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's website. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 4 p.m. on Nov. 4. To access the telephone playback, dial (800) 642-1687 (please note new playback number) and provide Apache's confirmation code, 19776911.
Forward-Looking Statements
     This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K, recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K available on our website, , and in our other public filings and press releases. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date. However, readers should review carefully reports and documents that Apache files periodically with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
http://www.apachecorp.com/
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results and are meaningful for the following reasons:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


