FILE:APA/APA-8K-20100721165716.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     In connection with and in contemplation of the previously disclosed entry by Apache Corporation ("Apache") into definitive agreements to acquire properties in the Permian Basin, the Western Canada Sedimentary Basin and the Western Desert of Egypt from subsidiaries of BP plc for aggregate consideration of approximately $7.0 billion (the "BP Acquisition"), Apache entered into a term loan agreement with affiliates of Goldman, Sachs & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. dated July 20, 2010 that provides a $5.0 billion unsecured bridge facility (the "Bridge Facility"). The proceeds of the Bridge Facility could be used to finance a portion of the consideration for the BP Acquisition, including the July 30, 2010 $5.0 billion deposit toward the BP Acquisition purchase price, and to pay certain fees and expenses in connection with the BP Acquisition. The Bridge Facility will be used as a backstop in the event that alternative forms of financing, including proceeds from previously disclosed offerings of Apache common stock and depositary shares and other debt financing that Apache subsequently expects to undertake, are not available in sufficient amounts at or prior to such times when Apache is required to fund the consideration payable for the BP Acquisition. Apache does not currently intend to draw under the Bridge Facility but instead plans to finance the BP Acquisition through proceeds from previously disclosed offerings of Apache common stock and depositary shares, cash on hand, Apache's existing revolving credit and commercial paper facilities and the issuance of term debt.
     Funds under the Bridge Facility will be available to Apache in one or more drawings until September 28, 2010. Covenants, events of default and representations and warranties are substantially similar to those in Apache's existing revolving credit facilities. Apache is required to prepay loans under the Bridge Facility with 100% of the net cash proceeds of (a) equity issuances to third parties by Apache or any of its subsidiaries, (b) indebtedness for borrowed money by Apache or any of its subsidiaries (with certain exceptions, including refinancings and draws under existing facilities, indebtedness for working capital, securitizations in the ordinary course of business, and commercial paper issued under Apache's existing commercial paper program), and (c) asset dispositions by Apache or any of its subsidiaries outside the ordinary course of business. The Bridge Facility will mature on September 29, 2010 but may be extended at Apache's option until December 29, 2010.
     All borrowings under the Bridge Facility will bear interest at a rate equal to either:
     The Bridge Facility will incur a fee after the first funding under such facility, payable on the average daily undrawn amount of the Bridge Facility at a per annum rate equal to 0.10% to 0.35%.
 
     The foregoing summary of the Bridge Facility does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Bridge Facility, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
     The Bridge Facility has been filed with this report to provide investors and security holders with information regarding its terms. It is not intended to provide any other factual information about Apache. The representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Bridge Facility were made only for purposes of such agreement and as of specific dates, were solely for the benefit of the parties to such agreement, and may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the contracting parties, including being qualified by confidential disclosures exchanged between the parties in connection with the execution of the Bridge Facility. The representations and warranties may have been made for the purposes of allocating contractual risk between the parties to the Bridge Facility instead of establishing these matters as facts, and may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. Investors are not third-party beneficiaries under the Bridge Facility and should not rely on the representations, warranties and covenants or any descriptions thereof as characterizations of the actual state of facts or condition of Apache or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations and warranties may change after the date of the Bridge Facility, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in Apache's public disclosures.
     The information required by this item is included in Item 1.01 and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS TERM LOAN AGREEMENT, dated as of July 20, 2010, is among , a Delaware corporation (""), the (as defined below) party hereto, , as Administrative Agent, and and , as Co-Syndication Agents.
APACHE CORPORATION
Borrower
LENDERS
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
CITIBANK, N.A., BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA
     A. Borrower, Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the other Agents desire to enter into this Agreement to set forth the terms and conditions pursuant to which Lenders will make available to Borrower a multiple advance senior term loan on a non-revolving basis for the purposes set forth in this Agreement.
     B. Borrower, Lenders, the Administrative Agent, and the other Agents party hereto hereby agree as follows:
     SECTION 1.1 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
     "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
     "" means the acquisitions to be consummated pursuant to the Purchase and Sale Agreements.
Acquisitions
     "" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
     "" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent for the Lenders.
Administrative Agent
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means each of the Administrative Agent and the Co-Syndication Agents.
Agents
 
     "" means this Term Loan Agreement, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Agreement
     "" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus / of 1% and (c) the LIBO Rate in effect on such day for a one-month interest period plus 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
1
2
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, (a) before the Initial Funding Date, the total percentage represented by such Lender's Commitment and (b) on and after the Initial Funding Date, the percentage that the aggregate principal amount of such Lender's Loans then outstanding constitutes the amount of the aggregate principal amount of all Loans then outstanding.
Applicable Percentage
     "" means, for any day, (i) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Eurodollar Margin", or (ii) with respect to the Undrawn Fees payable hereunder, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Undrawn Fee", in either case, based upon the ratings by Moody's, S&P and Fitch, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt:
Applicable Rate
     For purposes of the foregoing, (i) if either Moody's, S&P or Fitch shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the penultimate sentence of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in Category 5; (ii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P and Fitch for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the highest two ratings, the highest two ratings shall fall within different Categories in which case the Applicable Rate shall be based on the lower of the highest two ratings; and (iii) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P and Fitch for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch shall change, or if any such rating agency shall cease to be in the
unless
 
business of rating corporate debt obligations, Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation. Changes in the Applicable Rate will occur automatically without prior notice.
     "" is defined in .
Arrangers
Article IX
     "" means the sale or other disposition of any assets in any single transaction or series of related transactions for Net Asset Sale Proceeds of $100,000,000 or more. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any sale or other disposition of any of the following items shall not constitute an Asset Sale:
Asset Sale
     "" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Acceptance
Section 10.4
Exhibit B
     "" means the Chairman, the President, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President and Treasurer of Borrower, and any officer or employee of Borrower specified as such to the Administrative Agent in writing by any of the aforementioned officers of Borrower.
Authorized Officer
     "" means, with respect to any Lender, the period from and including the Initial Funding Date to but excluding the earlier of September 28, 2010 and the date of termination of the Commitment of such Lender; , , that no Commitment of any Lender shall terminate prior to September 29, 2010 except as provided in , , , and .
Availability Period
provided
however
Sections 2.8
4.2
8.2
8.3
10.4
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or consented to, approval of,
Bankruptcy Event
 
or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, provided that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, provided, further, that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the .
Borrower
Preamble
     "" means Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
     "" means a request by Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with , in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Borrowing Request
Section 2.3
Exhibit C
     "" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
     "" means the consolidated shareholder's equity of Borrower and its Subsidiaries plus the consolidated Debt of Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Capital
     "" means:
Capital Stock
     (a) in the case of a corporation, corporate or capital stock;
     (b) in the case of an association or business entity, any and all shares, interests, participations, rights or other equivalents (however designated) of corporate stock;
     (c) in the case of a partnership or limited liability company, partnership interests (whether general or limited) or membership interests; and
     (d) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person, but excluding from all of the foregoing any debt securities convertible into Capital Stock, whether or not such debt securities include any right of participation with Capital Stock.
     "" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C.  9601, , as amended from time to time.
CERCLA
et. seq.
 
     "" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of , by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Change in Law
Section 2.16(b)
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Loans, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to , (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to , and (c) terminated pursuant to , or . The amount of the Commitment represents such Lender's maximum Loan Exposure hereunder. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on , or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $5,000,000,000.
Commitment
Section 2.8
Section 10.4
Sections 4.2
8.2
8.3
Schedule 2.1
     "" means the total assets of the Borrower and its subsidiaries which would be shown as assets on a consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Assets
     "" means (i) the consolidated shareholder's equity of Borrower and its Subsidiaries (determined in accordance with GAAP), less (ii) the amount of consolidated intangible assets of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, plus (iii) the aggregate amount of any non-cash write downs, on a consolidated basis, by Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the term hereof.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means all members of a controlled group of corporations and all members of a controlled group of trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with Borrower, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 (b) or 414 (c) of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 4001 of ERISA.
Controlled Group
     "" means Citibank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, in their capacity as co-syndication agents.
Co-Syndication Agents
     "" means the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Credit Party
     "" of any Person means indebtedness, including capital leases, shown as debt on a consolidated balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Debt
 
     "" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means any Lender that (a) has failed, within two (2) Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, to (i) fund any portion of its Loans or (ii) pay over to any Credit Party any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) has notified the Borrower or any Credit Party in writing, or has made a public statement to the effect, that it does not intend or expect to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) to funding a loan under this Agreement cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by the Administrative Agent, acting in good faith, to provide a certification in writing from an authorized officer of such Lender that it will comply with its obligations (and is financially able to meet such obligations) to fund prospective Loans under this Agreement, provided that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon the Administrative Agent's receipt of such certification in form and substance satisfactory to it, or (d) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event.
Defaulting Lender
     "" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
     "" means the date this Agreement is executed by all parties name on the signature pages hereto.
Effective Date
     "" means all applicable federal, state or local statutes, laws, ordinances, codes, rules and regulations (including consent decrees and administrative orders) relating to public health and safety and protection of the environment.
Environmental Laws
     "" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
     "" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
Equity Interests
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any successor statute of similar import, together with the regulations thereunder, in each case as in effect from time to time.
ERISA
 
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA Event
     "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
Eurodollar
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Event of Default
Article VIII
     "" means, with respect to any Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.18(b)
Section 2.16(e)
Section 2.16(a)
     "" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three (3) Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
     "" means Fitch, Inc. and any affiliate or successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency in the United States.
Fitch
     "" means any Lender that is not organized under the laws of, or resident, in the United States. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent with the most recent financial statements of Borrower and its Subsidiaries delivered to the Lenders pursuant hereto.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
     "" means (a) any "hazardous substance," as defined by CERCLA; (b) any "hazardous waste," as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; or (c) any pollutant or contaminant or hazardous, dangerous or toxic chemical, material or substance within the meaning of any other Environmental Law.
Hazardous Material
     "" of any Person means all (i) Debt, and (ii) guaranties or other contingent obligations in respect of the Debt of any other Person.
Indebtedness
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" means senior, unsecured, non-credit enhanced, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
     "" means the date upon which the conditions specified in of this Agreement are satisfied (or waived in accordance with of this Agreement).
Initial Funding Date
Section 4.2
Section 10.2
     "" means a notice and certificate of Borrower executed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower addressed to the Lenders and delivered to the Administrative Agent, whereby Borrower certifies to its knowledge satisfaction of all the conditions precedent to the funding under of this Agreement.
Initial Funding Notice
Section 4.2
     "" means a request by Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with , in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Interest Election Request
Section 2.7
Exhibit C
 
     "" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December, and (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part.
Interest Payment Date
     "" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending (a) on the day that is seven or fourteen days thereafter or, with the consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender, another day that is less than fourteen days thereafter or (b) on the numerically corresponding day that is one or two months thereafter or with the consent of the Administrative Agent, such other day, in each case as Borrower may elect; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
     "" means the Persons listed on and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance.
Lenders
Schedule 2.1
     "" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the applicable British Bankers' Association Settlement Rate for deposits in dollars (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) appearing on the Reuters "LIBOR01" screen (or on any successor or substitute screen provided by Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such screen of such service, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent and Borrower from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge, or security interest of any kind, granted or created to secure Indebtedness; , , that, with respect to any prohibitions of Liens on Property, the following transactions shall not be deemed to create a Lien to secure Indebtedness; (i) production payments and (ii) liens required by statute and created in favor of U.S. governmental entities to secure partial, progress, advance, or other payments intended to be used primarily in connection with air or water pollution control.
Lien
provided
however
 
     "" means this Agreement, any Borrowing Request, any Interest Election Request, any Notice of Extension, any Assignment and Acceptance, any election notice, the agreement with respect to fees described in , and each other agreement, document or instrument delivered by Borrower or any other Person in connection with this Agreement, as such may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Loan Document
Section 2.11(b)
     "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Loans at such time.
Loan Exposure
     "" means the loans made by the Lenders to Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
     "" means, as to any matter, that such matter could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the assets, business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) of Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. No matter shall be considered to result, or be expected to result, in a Material Adverse Effect unless such matter causes Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to suffer a loss or incur a cost equal to at least ten percent (10%) of Borrower's Consolidated Tangible Net Worth.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means September 29, 2010, or if an extension is requested by Borrower pursuant to , December 29, 2010.
Maturity Date
Section 2.6
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency in the United States.
Moody's
     "" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means, with respect to any Asset Sale, an amount equal to: (a) the aggregate cash proceeds received by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in respect of such Asset Sale less (b) the sum of (i) the direct costs relating to such Asset Sale, including legal, accounting and investment banking fees, sales commissions, any relocation expenses incurred as a result of the Asset Sale, and taxes paid or payable as a result of the Asset Sale, including income taxes payable due to the distribution of such proceeds from a Subsidiary to the Borrower; (ii) payments made to retire Indebtedness (other than the Loans) required to be repaid in connection with such Asset Sale; and (iii) amounts reasonably reserved for adjustment in respect of the sale price of such asset or assets.
Net Asset Sale Proceeds
     "" means with respect to the incurrence or issuance by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to any Person of any Debt or Equity Interests, an amount equal to: (a) the gross cash proceeds received by the Borrower or such Subsidiaries from such incurrence or issuance less (b) all reasonable and customary underwriting commissions, legal, investment banking, brokerage and accounting and other professional fees, sales commissions and other disbursements actually incurred in connection with such sale or issuance.
Net Financing Proceeds
     "" means a notice from Borrower, executed by an Authorized Officer and delivered to the Administrative Agent, which requests an extension of the then scheduled Maturity Date pursuant to .
Notice of Extension
Section 2.6
 
     "" means, at any time, the sum of (i) the outstanding principal amount of any Loans (ii) all accrued and unpaid interest and Undrawn Fees (iii) all other obligations of Borrower or any Subsidiary to any Lender or any Agent, whether or not contingent, arising under or in connection with any of the Loan Documents.
Obligations
plus
plus
     "" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
     "" is defined in .
Participants
Section 10.4(e)
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
     "" means a "pension plan," as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA, which is subject to Title IV of ERISA (other than a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA), and to which a Borrower or any corporation, trade or business that is, along with a Borrower, a member of a Controlled Group, may have liability, including any liability by reason of having been a substantial employer within the meaning of Section 4063 of ERISA at any time during the preceding five years, or by reason of being deemed to be a contributing sponsor under Section 4069 of ERISA.
Pension Plan
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, unlimited liability company, joint venture, partnership, firm, association, trust, government, governmental agency or any other entity, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.
Person
     "" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
     "" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City which rate may not be the lowest rate offered; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
     "" means (i) any property owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in property, which is considered by Borrower to be capable of producing oil, gas, or minerals in commercial quantities, (ii) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in any refinery, processing or manufacturing plant owned or leased by Borrower or any manufacturing plant owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary, (iii) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in all present and future oil, gas, other liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, and other minerals now or hereafter produced from any other Property or to which Borrower or any Subsidiary may be entitled as a result of its ownership of any Property, and (iv) all real and personal assets owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary used in the drilling, gathering, processing, transportation, or marketing of any oil, gas, and other
Property
 
hydrocarbons or minerals, except (a) any such real or personal assets related thereto employed in transportation, distribution or marketing or (b) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in, any refinery, processing or manufacturing plant, or portion thereof, which property described in clauses (a) or (b), in the opinion of the Board of Directors of Borrower, is not a principal plant or principal facility in relation to the activities of Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
     "" means (a) that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of July 20, 2010, by and between BP America Production Company, as Seller, and ZPZ Delaware I LLC, as Buyer, relating to the Permian assets; (b) that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of July 20, 2010, by and between BP Egypt Company and BP Exploration (Delta) Limited, as Sellers, and ZPZ Egypt Corporation LDC, as Buyer, relating to the Egyptian assets; and (c) that certain Partnership Interest and Share Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of July 20, 2010, by and between BP Canada Energy, as Seller, and Apache Canada Ltd., as Buyer, relating to the Canadian assets.
Purchase and Sale Agreements
     "" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 10.4
     "" means any of Regulations T, U or X of the Board from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulations or official interpretations of said Board or any successor Person relating to the extension of credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System or any successor Person.
Regulation U
     "" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means Lenders having in the aggregate 51% of the aggregate total Commitments, or, if the Commitments have been terminated, Lenders holding 51% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the outstanding Obligations.
Required Lenders
     "" means the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 690, ., as amended from time to time.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
et seq
     "" means any Subsidiary of Borrower that owns any asset representing or consisting of an entitlement to production from, or other interest in, reserves of oil, gas or other minerals in place located in the United States or Canada, including, without limitation, Apache Canada Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada, or is otherwise designated by Borrower in writing to the Administrative Agent.
Restricted Subsidiary
     "" means Standard & Poor's and any successor thereto that is a nationally-recognized rating agency in the United States.
S&P
     "" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the applicable maximum reserve percentages (including any basic, marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for eurocurrency
Statutory Reserve Rate
 
funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
     "" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other similar entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or other equity) having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the Board of Directors of such corporation or entity (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock or any other class or classes of such corporation or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person.
subsidiary
     "" means any subsidiary of Borrower; , , that in all events the following Persons shall not be deemed to be Subsidiaries of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries: Apache Offshore Investment Partnership, a Delaware general partnership, Apache Offshore Petroleum Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Main Pass 151 Pipeline Company, a Texas general partnership, and Apache 681/682 Joint Venture, a Texas joint venture.
Subsidiary
provided
however
     "" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
     "" means the execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
Transactions
     "", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
     "" means, at any time, (i) the aggregate maximum amount of the Commitments at such time, minus (ii) the aggregate principal amount of then outstanding Loans at such time.
Undrawn Amount
     "" is defined in .
Undrawn Fee
Section 2.11(a)
     "" or "" means the United States of America, its fifty states and the District of Columbia.
United States
U.S.
     "" means any Subsidiary of Borrower that is not a Restricted Subsidiary.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
     "" means a "welfare plan," as such term is defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA.
Welfare Plan
 
     "" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
     SECTION 1.2 . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Type (., a "Eurodollar Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Type (., a "Eurodollar Borrowing").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
e.g
e.g
     SECTION 1.3 . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
     SECTION 1.4 . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
     SECTION 2.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Loans to the Borrower in one or more advances from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) the aggregate principal amount of such Lender's Loans exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the sum of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Loans exceeding
The Facility; Commitments
 
the total Commitments. The Borrower may not reborrow Loans that have been paid or prepaid and such payment or prepayment shall not reduce any unused Commitments.
     SECTION 2.2 .
Loans and Borrowings
     (a) Each Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
provided
     (b) Subject to , each Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.13
provided
     (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (including any continuation or conversion of existing Loans made in connection therewith). At the time that each ABR Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (including any continuation or conversion of existing Loans made in connection therewith); that an ABR Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments. Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of ten (10) Eurodollar Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
     (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
     SECTION 2.3 . To request a Borrowing, Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Requests for Borrowings
Section 2.2
     (i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
     (ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
     (iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
 
     (iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If no election as to the Type of Borrowing is specified, then the requested Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Borrowing, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
     SECTION 2.4 [Intentionally Omitted.]
     SECTION 2.5 .
Funding of Borrowings
     (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of Borrower designated by Borrower from time to time in a written notice to the Administrative Agent executed by two Authorized Officers of Borrower.
     (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on the requested date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate or a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Loans made in such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
     SECTION 2.6 . Subject to the other provisions of this Agreement and provided that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the total Commitments shall be effective for the Availability Period (ending on September 28, 2010). The Maturity Date may be extended one time at the option of Borrower to December 29, 2010, upon Borrower's delivery to the Administrative Agent of a Notice of Extension at least three (3) Business Days prior to the Maturity Date. In the event that Borrower elects to extend the Maturity Date pursuant to this , Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of Lenders, an extension fee equal to 75 basis points on each Lender's pro rata
Extension of Maturity Date
Section 2.6
 
portion of the Borrowings which remain outstanding at the time of such extension, which extension fee shall be paid by Borrower in immediately available funds by wire transfer to Administrative Agent on the date of delivery of the Notice of Extension. Such extension shall be effective without other or further action by any party hereto for such additional period.
     SECTION 2.7 .
Interest Elections
     (a) Each Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request (or an ABR Borrowing if no Type is specified) and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request (or one week if no Interest Period is specified). Thereafter, Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. Borrower may, subject to the requirements of , elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
Section 2.2(c)
     (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under if Borrower were requesting a Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request signed by Borrower.
Section 2.3
     (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Section 2.2
     (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
     (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
     (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
     (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one week's duration.
 
     (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
     (e) If Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing, (i) no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid and provided the Indebtedness has not been accelerated pursuant to , each Eurodollar Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
Section 8.3
     SECTION 2.8 .
Termination and Reduction of Commitments
     (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on September 29, 2010.
     (b) In the event that Borrower is required to make a mandatory prepayment or Commitment reduction pursuant to , Borrower may elect to permanently reduce the Commitments by the amount required by .
Section 2.10
Section 2.10
     (c) Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with , the sum of the Loan Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
Section 2.10
     (d) Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least one (1) Business Day prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
     SECTION 2.9 .
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
     (a) Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Loan on the Maturity Date or, if earlier, the date on which the Commitment of such Lender relating to such Loan is
 
terminated (except for termination of the Commitment of the assigning Lender pursuant to ).
Section 10.4(b)
     (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
     (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
     (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by one or more promissory notes. In such event, Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender promissory notes payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent). Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory notes and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to ) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if any such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Section 10.4
     SECTION 2.10 .
Prepayment of Loans
     (a) The following amounts shall be applied, at the discretion of the Borrower, to prepay the Loans or to reduce the Commitments of the Lenders on or before four (4) Business Days following in the case of paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iv) of this clause (a), the receipt of any such amounts and, in the case of paragraph (iii) of this clause (a), the effective date of such credit facility:
     (i) One hundred percent (100%) of the Net Financing Proceeds of any issuance of Equity Interests to third parties by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries on or after July 19, 2010;
     (ii) One hundred percent (100%) of the Net Financing Proceeds of any incurrence of Debt on or after July 19, 2010 by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries under any debt securities or any loan, credit or similar facility not described in paragraph (iii) below, other than (a) any refinancing of, or draws under, the existing revolving credit facilities of Borrower or any other existing Debt of the Borrower or
 
any of its Subsidiaries (including Mariner Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries when they are merged into Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or become Subsidiaries of Borrower, as applicable), (b) any debt securities or any loan, credit or commercial paper or similar facilities entered into for working capital purposes or otherwise in the ordinary course of business, (c) any commercial paper issued by Borrower under its existing $1,950,000,000 commercial paper program, and (d) any securitization facilities entered into in the ordinary course of business;
     (iii) One hundred percent (100%) of the amount of any commitments under any credit facility entered into on or after the date hereof by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to provide financing relating to the Acquisitions; and
     (iv) One hundred percent (100%) of the Net Asset Sale Proceeds of any Asset Sale received on or after July 19, 2010 by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
     (b) Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
     (c) Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by , then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with . Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in . Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by and compensation for break funding, to the extent required by .
provided
Section 2.8
Section 2.8
Section 2.2
Section 2.12
Section 2.15
     SECTION 2.11 .
Fees
     (a) Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (for the ratable benefit of the Lenders in accordance with their Applicable Percentage) a fee on the average daily Undrawn Amount (the "") in an amount equal to the product of the Applicable Rate and the average daily Undrawn Amount. The Undrawn Fee shall accrue during the period from and including the earlier to occur of (X) August 2, 2010 or (Y) the Initial Funding Date to but excluding the earlier to occur of (i) the date on which such Commitment terminates (except for termination of the Commitment of the assigning Lender pursuant to ) or (ii) the Maturity Date. Accrued Undrawn Fees shall be payable monthly in arrears on the third Business Day following the end of each calendar month and on the Maturity Date, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Initial Funding Date; that any Undrawn Fees accruing
Undrawn Fee
Section 10.4(b)
provided
 
as of the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All Undrawn Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
     (b) Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
     (c) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of Undrawn Fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
     SECTION 2.12 .
Interest
     (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest on the daily amount outstanding at the Alternate Base Rate.
     (b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest on the daily amount outstanding at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
     (c) [Intentionally Omitted.]
     (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
     (e) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Loans on the Maturity Date; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan, accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
     (f) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error.
 
     SECTION 2.13 . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
     (i) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
     (ii) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Borrowing to, or continuation of any Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective, and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing; that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
provided
     SECTION 2.14 .
Increased Costs
     (a) If any Change in Law shall:
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate); or
     (ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) If any Lender reasonably determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or
 
amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
     (c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section (together with the calculation thereof) shall be delivered to Borrower and shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error. Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
     (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
     SECTION 2.15 . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under and is revoked in accordance therewith), or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by Borrower pursuant to then, in any such event, Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive, together with the calculation thereof, pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to Borrower and to the Administrative Agent and shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error. Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
Section 2.10(b)
Section 2.18
     SECTION 2.16 .
Taxes
     (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes;
 
that if Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
provided
     (b) In addition, Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
     (c) Borrower shall pay the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto (other than any such penalties or interest arising through the failure of the Administrative Agent or Lender to act as a reasonably prudent agent or lender, respectively), whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to Borrower by a Lender, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error.
     (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by Borrower to a Governmental Authority, Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
     (e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
     SECTION 2.17 .
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
     (a) Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it to the Administrative Agent hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under , or , or otherwise) prior to 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent, c/o Loan & Agency Services Group, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 1111 Fannin Street, 10Floor, Houston, Texas 77002-8069, Attention: Ms. Monica Espitia, telephone no.: 713-427-6557, facsimile no.: 713-427-6307,
Section 2.14
2.15
2.16
th
 
except that payments pursuant to , and shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
Sections 2.14
2.16
10.3
     (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties. If insufficient funds are received due to Borrower's entitlement to withhold amounts on account of Excluded Taxes in relation to a particular Lender, such insufficiency shall not be subject to this but shall be withheld from and shall only affect payments made to such Lender.
Section 2.17(b)
     (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
     (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with
 
interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
     (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to , then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion, notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender for the benefit of the Administrative Agent to satisfy such Lender's obligations to it under such Section until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid, and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Lender under any such Section, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion.
Section 2.17(d)
     SECTION 2.18 .
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
     (a) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Section 2.14
Section 2.16
Section 2.14
2.16
     (b) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, then Borrower may upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse or expense to, or warranty by, such Lender (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in ), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee designated by Borrower which meets the requirements of that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Borrower (in the case of all other amounts), (iii) the assignee and assignor shall have entered into an Assignment and Acceptance, and (iv) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments.
Section 2.14
Section 2.16
Section 10.4
Section 10.4(b)
provided
Section 2.14
Section 2.16
 
     SECTION 2.19 . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
Defaulting Lenders
          (a) Fees shall cease to accrue on the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to ; and
Section 2.11
          (b) the Commitment and Loan Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included (in either the calculation of aggregate Commitments, outstanding Obligations or otherwise) in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to Section 10.2); provided, that this clause (b) shall not apply to the vote of a Defaulting Lender in the case of an amendment, waiver or other modification requiring the (i) the unanimous consent of the Lenders or (ii) the consent of such Lender as an "affected" Lender.
In the event that the Administrative Agent and Borrower each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Loan Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment.
     In order to induce the Lenders and the Agents to enter into this Agreement and the Lenders to make Loans hereunder, Borrower represents and warrants unto the Agents and each Lender as set forth in this .
Article III
     SECTION 3.1 . Borrower is a corporation, and each of its Subsidiaries is a corporation or other legal entity, in either case duly incorporated or otherwise properly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and has all requisite authority, permits and approvals, and is in good standing to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted where the failure to so qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Organization
     SECTION 3.2 . The execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and each other Loan Document executed or to be executed by it, are within Borrower's corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on behalf of it, and do not (a) contravene Borrower's articles of incorporation or other organizational documents, as the case may be; (b) contravene any material contractual restriction, law or governmental regulation or court decree or order binding on or affecting Borrower or any Subsidiary; or (c) result in, or require the creation or imposition of, any Lien, not permitted by , on any of Borrower's or any Subsidiary's properties. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document executed by Borrower will, on the due execution and delivery thereof, constitute, the legal, valid and binding obligations of Borrower enforceable in accordance with their respective terms subject as to enforcement only to
Authorization and Validity
Section 7.1
 
bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditor rights generally and to general principles of equity.
     SECTION 3.3 . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or other Person is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Neither Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company," within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or a "holding company," or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company," or an "affiliate" of a "holding company" or of a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company," within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended.
Government Approval and Regulation
     SECTION 3.4 . During the twelve-consecutive-month period prior to the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the date of any Borrowing hereunder, no steps have been taken to terminate any Pension Plan, and no contribution failure has occurred with respect to any Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA. No condition exists or event or transaction has occurred with respect to any Pension Plan which would result in the incurrence by Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group of any liability, fine or penalty in excess of $100,000,000. Neither Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has any contingent liability with respect to any post-retirement benefit under a Welfare Plan, other than liability for continuation coverage described in Part 6 of Title I of ERISA.
Pension and Welfare Plans
     SECTION 3.5 . Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock, and no proceeds of any Loans will be used for a purpose which violates, or would be inconsistent with, Regulation U. Terms for which meanings are provided in Regulations U are used in this Section with such meanings.
Regulation U
     SECTION 3.6 . Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has to the best knowledge of Borrower after due investigation filed all tax returns and reports required by law to have been filed by it and has paid all taxes and governmental charges thereby shown to be owing, except any such taxes or charges which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP shall have been set aside on its books or which the failure to file or pay could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
     SECTION 3.7 . hereto contains an accurate list of all of the presently existing Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, Restricted Subsidiaries, of Borrower as of the date of this Agreement, setting forth their respective jurisdictions of incorporation or organization and the percentage of their respective capital stock or, the revenue share attributable to the general and limited partnership interests, as the case may be, owned by Borrower or other Subsidiaries. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of such Subsidiaries which are corporations have been duly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Subsidiaries; Restricted Subsidiaries
Schedule 3.7
 
     SECTION 4.1 . This Agreement shall become effective upon the execution of this Agreement by all of the parties listed on the signature pages hereto.
Effectiveness
     SECTION 4.2 . Borrower shall be permitted to request Borrowings under this Agreement on and after the Initial Funding Date, which shall occur upon the prior or concurrent satisfaction or waiver of each of the conditions precedent set forth in this .
Initial Loan
Section 4.2
 
The Administrative Agent shall notify Borrower, the other Agents and the Lenders of the Initial Funding Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to ) at or prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on September 28, 2010 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time).
Section 10.2
     SECTION 4.3 . The obligation of each Lender to fund any Loan which results in an increase in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans under this Agreement on the occasion of any Borrowing shall be subject to the satisfaction of each of the conditions precedent set forth in this .
All Loans
Section 4.3
 
     Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and all Obligations shall have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
     SECTION 5.1 . Borrower will furnish, or will cause to be furnished, to each Lender and the Administrative Agent copies of the following financial statements, reports, notices and information:
Financial Reporting and Notices
 
     SECTION 5.2 . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders where noncompliance therewith may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
Compliance with Laws
     SECTION 5.3 . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain, preserve, protect and keep valid title to, or valid leasehold interest in, all of its properties and assets, real and personal, tangible and intangible, of any nature whatsoever (including patents, trademarks, trade names, service marks and copyrights), free and clear of all Liens, charges or claims (including infringement claims with respect to patents, trademarks, copyrights and the like) except as permitted pursuant to and except for imperfections and other burdens of title thereto as do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value thereof or for the use thereof in their businesses (taken as a whole).
Maintenance of Properties
Section 7.1
     SECTION 5.4 . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain or cause to be maintained with responsible insurance companies (subject to self-insured retentions) insurance with respect to its properties and business against such casualties and contingencies and of such types and in such amounts as is customary in the case of similar businesses.
Insurance
     SECTION 5.5 . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep books and records which accurately reflect all of its business affairs and transactions and permit the Administrative Agent and the other Agents and each Lender through the Administrative Agent or any of their respective authorized representatives, during normal business hours and at reasonable intervals, to visit all of its offices, to discuss its financial matters with its officers and to examine (and, at the expense of the Administrative Agent or such other Agent or Lender or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, at the expense of Borrower, photocopy extracts from) any of its books or other records.
Books and Records
     SECTION 5.6 . Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, use the proceeds of the Loans for the purpose of funding payment of the costs associated with the
Use of Proceeds
 
Acquisitions and to pay fees and expenses in connection with the Acquisitions and this Agreement.
     Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and all Obligations shall have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
     SECTION 6.1 . Borrower will not permit its ratio (expressed as a percentage) of (i) the consolidated Debt of Borrower and its Subsidiaries to (ii) Capital to be greater than 60% at the end of any fiscal quarter beginning with the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2010.
Ratio of Total Debt to Capital
     Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and all Obligations have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
     SECTION 7.1 . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon the stock, assets, or indebtedness of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to secure Indebtedness of Borrower or any other Person except:
Liens
 
 
     SECTION 7.2 . Borrower will not liquidate or dissolve, consolidate with, or merge into or with, any other Person, or sell, lease or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of its assets unless (a) Borrower is the survivor of such merger or consolidation, and (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would occur after giving effect thereto.
Mergers
     SECTION 7.3 . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, sell, transfer, lease, contribute or otherwise convey, or grant options, warrants or other rights with respect to all or substantially all of its assets. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prohibit any transfer of any assets from Borrower to any Subsidiary of Borrower, from any Subsidiary of Borrower to Borrower or from a Subsidiary of Borrower to another Subsidiary of Borrower.
Asset Dispositions
     SECTION 7.4 . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into, or cause, suffer or permit to exist any arrangement or contract with any of its other Affiliates unless such arrangement or contract or group of arrangements or contracts, as the case may be, are conducted on an arms-length basis; , , that this Section shall not apply to Apache Offshore Investment Partnership, a Delaware general partnership, Apache Offshore Petroleum Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Main Pass 151 Pipeline Company, a Texas general partnership, and Apache 681/682 Joint Venture, a Texas joint venture.
Transactions with Affiliates
provided
however
     SECTION 7.5 . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any agreement (excluding this Agreement, or any other Loan Document) limiting the ability of Borrower to amend or otherwise modify this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any agreement which restricts or prohibits the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to make any payments, directly or indirectly, to Borrower by way of dividends, advances, repayments of loans or advances, reimbursements of management and other intercompany charges, expenses and accruals or other returns on investments, or any other agreement or arrangement which restricts the ability of any such Restricted Subsidiary to make any payment, directly or indirectly, to Borrower.
Restrictive Agreements
     SECTION 7.6 . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, guaranty any Indebtedness not included in the consolidated Debt of Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate outstanding principal amount at any time exceeding $100,000,000.
Guaranties
     SECTION 8.1 . Each of the following events or occurrences described in this shall constitute an "":
Listing of Events of Default
Section 8.1
Event of Default
 
 
     SECTION 8.2 . If any Event of Default described in shall occur, the Commitments (if not theretofore terminated) shall automatically terminate and the outstanding principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all other obligations hereunder shall automatically be and become immediately due and payable, without notice or demand.
Action if Bankruptcy
Section 8.1(g)
     SECTION 8.3 . If any Event of Default (other than any Event of Default described in ) shall occur for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, and be continuing, the Administrative Agent, upon the direction of the Required Lenders, shall by notice to Borrower declare all of the outstanding principal amount of the Loans and all other obligations hereunder to be due and payable and the Commitments (if not theretofore terminated) to be terminated, whereupon the full unpaid amount of such Loans and other obligations shall be and become immediately due and payable, without further notice, demand or presentment, and the Commitments shall terminate.
Action if Other Event of Default
Section 8.2
 
     Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Administrative Agent, and Citibank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA as Co-Syndication Agents, and authorizes each such Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to such Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
     Any bank serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent hereunder.
     The Agents and Lenders shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Agents and Lenders shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) each Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that such Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, each Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as such Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. Each Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Each Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to such Agent by Borrower or a Lender, and such Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to such Agent. None of the Persons identified on the facing page of this Agreement as the "Co-Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners" (the ""), or the Co-Syndication Agents shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement or any other Loan Document other than, except in the case of the Arrangers, those applicable to all Lenders as such.
Section 10.2
Section 10.2
Article IV
Arrangers
     The Administrative Agent and the other Agents shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement,
 
instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent and the other Agents also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent and the other Agents may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
     Any Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by such Agent. Any Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of such Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as an Agent.
     Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and Borrower. Upon any such resignation, Borrower shall have the right, in consultation with the Required Lenders, to appoint one of the Lenders as a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by Borrower and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent.
Section 10.3
     Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
 
     SECTION 10.1 . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
     (a) :
if to Borrower, to
          with a copy to:
          and with copy to:
     (b) :
if to the Administrative Agent, to
          with a copy to:
 
     (c) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) provided to the Administrative Agent and Borrower or as set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; provided that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; provided that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
     SECTION 10.2 .
Waivers; Amendments
     (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective except in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
     (b) Neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Borrower and the Required Lenders or by Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender or the Commitments without the written consent of such Lender or each Lender, respectively, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of
provided
 
the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, or (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof or thereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or thereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder or thereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder or thereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent.
Section 2.17(b)
(c)
provided
further
     SECTION 10.3 .
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
     (a) Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. and the Agents, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Agents, in connection with the preparation, execution and delivery of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents or any Lender, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or this Agreement.
     (b) Borrower shall indemnify the Agents, the Arrangers and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an ""), , against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (i) resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (ii) arise in connection with any issue in litigation commenced by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against any Indemnitee for which a final judgment is entered in favor of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against such Indemnitee.
Indemnitee
WHETHER OR NOT RELATED TO ANY NEGLIGENCE OF THE INDEMNITEE
provided
 
     (c) To the extent that Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent.
provided
     (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions or any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof, except for any such claim arising from such Indemnitee's gross negligence or willful misconduct.
     (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than thirty (30) days after written demand therefor.
     SECTION 10.4 .
Successors and Assigns
     (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by Borrower without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
     (b) Any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that (i) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender, each of Borrower and the Administrative Agent must give their prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall be in increments of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 unless each of Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, (iii) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (iv) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, and (v) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; and that any consent of Borrower otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under has occurred and is continuing. Subject to acceptance and
provided
provided further
Section 8.1
 
recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and ). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section.
Sections 2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
10.3
     (c) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
     (d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register and will provide prompt written notice to Borrower of the effectiveness of such Assignment. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
     (e) Any Lender may, without the consent of Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and (iv) if such Participant is not a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, such Lender shall have given notice to Borrower of the name of the Participant and the amount of such participation. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that
Participant
provided
provided
 
such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Section 10.2(b)
Sections 2.14
2.15
2.16
Section 10.8
Section 2.17(c)
     (f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under , or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless Borrower shall expressly agree otherwise in writing. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Section 2.14
2.15
2.16
Section 2.16
Section 2.16(e)
     (g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender to a Federal Reserve Bank or, in the case of a Lender organized in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, a comparable Person, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
     SECTION 10.5 . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of , , , and and shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
Sections 2.14
2.15
2.16
2.17
10.3
Article IX
     SECTION 10.6 . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.1
 
become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
     SECTION 10.7 . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
     SECTION 10.8 . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the Obligations of Borrower shall have been accelerated, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of Borrower against any of and all the obligations of Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
     SECTION 10.9 .
GOVERNING LAW; JURISDICTION; CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS
     (a) THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
     (b) BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE OR, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE AGENTS OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY
 
ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AGAINST BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
     (c) BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT IT MAY LEGALLY AND EFFECTIVELY DO SO, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN THE FIRST SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH (b) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
     (d) EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY REGISTERED MAIL, POSTAGE PREPAID, OR BY PERSONAL SERVICE WITHIN OR WITHOUT THE STATE OF NEW YORK. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW.
     SECTION 10.10 EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
     SECTION 10.11 . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
     SECTION 10.12 . Each of the Agents and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory or self-regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or
Confidentiality
 
any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) with the consent of Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section by any Person or (B) becomes available to any Agent or any Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than Borrower or any Person obligated to maintain the confidentiality of such Information. Prior to disclosing any Information under clause (c) above, the Agent or Lender required or asked to make such disclosure shall make a good faith effort to give Borrower prior notice of such proposed disclosure to permit Borrower to attempt to obtain a protective order or other appropriate injunctive relief. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from Borrower relating to Borrower or its business, other than any publicly available information and such information that is available to any Agent or any Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure by Borrower; that, in the case of information received from Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
     SECTION 10.13 . It is the intention of the parties hereto to conform strictly to applicable interest, usury and criminal laws and, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the obligations of Borrower to a Lender or any Agent under this Agreement shall be subject to the limitation that payments of interest shall not be required to the extent that receipt thereof would be contrary to provisions of law applicable to such Lender or Agent limiting rates of interest which may be charged or collected by such Lender or Agent. Accordingly, if the transactions contemplated hereby would be illegal, unenforceable, usurious or criminal under laws applicable to a Lender or Agent (including the laws of any jurisdiction whose laws may be mandatorily applicable to such Lender or Agent notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document but subject to hereof) then, in that event, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, it is agreed as follows:
Interest Rate Limitation
Section 2.12
     (i) the provisions of this Section shall govern and control;
     (ii) the aggregate of all consideration which constitutes interest under applicable law that is contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received under this Agreement, or under any of the other aforesaid agreements or otherwise in connection with this Agreement by such Lender or Agent shall under no circumstances exceed the maximum amount of interest allowed by applicable law (such maximum lawful interest rate, if any, with respect to each Lender and the Agent herein called the ""), and any excess shall be cancelled automatically and if theretofore paid shall be credited to Borrower by such Lender or Agent (or, if such consideration shall have been paid in full, such excess refunded to Borrower);
Highest Lawful Rate
     (iii) all sums paid, or agreed to be paid, to such Lender or Agent for the use, forbearance and detention of the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender or Agent hereunder or under any Loan Document shall, to the extent permitted by laws applicable to such Lender or Agent, as the case may be, be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread
 
throughout the full term of such indebtedness until payment in full so that the actual rate of interest is uniform throughout the full term thereof;
     (iv) if at any time the interest provided pursuant to this Section or any other clause of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, together with any other fees or compensation payable pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document and deemed interest under laws applicable to such Lender or Agent, exceeds that amount which would have accrued at the Highest Lawful Rate, the amount of interest and any such fees or compensation to accrue to such Lender or Agent pursuant to this Agreement shall be limited, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, to that amount which would have accrued at the Highest Lawful Rate, but any subsequent reductions, as applicable, shall not reduce the interest to accrue to such Lender or Agent pursuant to this Agreement below the Highest Lawful Rate until the total amount of interest accrued pursuant to this Agreement or such other Loan Document, as the case may be, and such fees or compensation deemed to be interest equals the amount of interest which would have accrued to such Lender or Agent if a varying rate equal to the interest provided pursuant to any other relevant Section hereof (other than this Section), as applicable, had at all times been in effect, the amount of fees which would have been received but for the effect of this Section; and
per
annum
plus
     (v) with the intent that the rate of interest herein shall at all times be lawful, and if the receipt of any funds owing hereunder or under any other agreement related hereto (including any of the other Loan Documents) by such Lender or Agent would cause such Lender to charge Borrower a criminal rate of interest, the Lenders and the Agents agree that they will not require the payment or receipt thereof or a portion thereof which would cause a criminal rate of interest to be charged by such Lender or Agent, as applicable, and if received such affected Lender or Agent will return such funds to Borrower so that the rate of interest paid by Borrower shall not exceed a criminal rate of interest from the date this Agreement was entered into.
     SECTION 10.14 . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies Borrower, which information includes the name and address of Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify Borrower in accordance with the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
     SECTION 10.15 . THIS WRITTEN AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS AMONG THE PARTIES.
NO ORAL AGREEMENTS
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
:
EXHIBITS
:
SCHEDULES


