FILE:APA/APA-8K-20101105170237.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.01. COMPLETION OF ACQUISITION OR DISPOSITION OF ASSETS
     On November 4, 2010, Apache Corporation's subsidiary, ZPZ Egypt Corporation LDC (the "Company"), completed the previously announced acquisition of substantially all of BP plc's oil and gas operations, acreage and infrastructure in Egypt's Western Desert. The Company paid $650 million to acquire four development leases and one exploration concession across 394,300 acres (the "Egyptian Properties"). The Company acquired the Egyptian Properties pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in a Purchase and Sale Agreement by and among BP Egypt Company, BP Exploration (Delta) Limited and ZPZ Egypt Corporation LDC dated July 20, 2010, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 2.3 to Apache's Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on July 21, 2010, and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The transaction is the third closing of Apache's previously announced three-part acquisition of BP assets. In October, Apache subsidiary Apache Canada Ltd. completed its acquisition of substantially all of BP's upstream natural gas business in western Alberta and British Columbia. In August, another Apache subsidiary completed its acquisition of all of BP's oil and gas operations, acreage, and infrastructure in the Permian Basin. Apache financed the acquisitions with a combination of debt and equity securities as well as cash on hand. Apache is filing this 8-K/A to provide the financial statements required by Item 2.01 with respect to the BP Properties.
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
     On November 4, 2010, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing that the Company had closed the acquisition of the Egyptian Properties, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 .FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(a)
Financial Statement of Businesses Acquired
     Audited Statement of Combined Revenues and Direct Operating Expenses for the Oil and Gas Properties (the "BP Properties") purchased by Apache Corporation from subsidiaries of BP p.l.c. (referred to collectively as "BP") for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009 and for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the related notes thereto, together with the Report of Independent Auditors of Ernst & Young LLP concerning the Statement and related notes. Copies of such Audited Statement of Combined Revenues and Direct Operating Expenses for the Oil and Gas Properties are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.4.
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information
     Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Condensed Statement of Operations of Apache Corporation and Subsidiaries, for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and for the year ended December 31, 2009, the Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Condensed Balance Sheet of Apache Corporation and Subsidiaries as of June 30, 2010, and the related notes thereto, to show the pro forma effects of Apache's acquisition of the BP Properties. Copies of such financial statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.5. The financial statements contained in Exhibit 99.5 incorporate by reference the financial statements of Apache Corporation and Subsidiaries contained in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:
of our report dated November 3, 2010, with respect to the statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses of the oil and gas properties purchased by Apache Corporation from BP p.l.c., included in this Current Report (Form 8-K/A) for the year ended December 31, 2009.
Houston, Texas November 3, 2010

EXHIBIT 99.1
     Houston, Nov. 4, 2010  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today announced that a subsidiary has completed its acquisition of BP's oil and gas operations, acreage and infrastructure in Egypt's Western Desert. The transaction marks the final step in Apache's previously announced three-part acquisition of BP assets.
     Apache's subsidiary paid $650 million to acquire four development leases and one exploration concession across 394,300 acres. The assets have estimated proved reserves of 20 million barrels of oil equivalent (59 percent liquids), and first-half 2010 net production of 6,016 barrels of oil and 11 million cubic feet of natural gas per day.
     The BP assets also include strategically positioned infrastructure a natural gas processing plant, a liquefied petroleum gas plant and oil and gas export lines  that will enable Apache to increase production from its existing fields in the Western Desert.
     In October, Apache subsidiary Apache Canada Ltd. completed its acquisition of substantially all of BP's upstream natural gas business in western Alberta and British Columbia. In August, another Apache subsidiary completed its acquisition of all of BP's oil and gas operations, acreage and infrastructure in the Permian Basin. Apache financed the acquisitions with a combination of debt and equity securities as well as cash on hand.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina. Apache posts announcements, updates, investor information and all press releases, on its website, .
www.apachecorp.com
Forward-Looking Statements
     This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, risks, uncertainties and other factors discussed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K, recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K available on our website, , and in our other public filings and press releases. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. We assume no duty to update these statements as of any future date. However, readers should review carefully reports and documents that Apache files periodically with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
http://www.apachecorp.com/

EXHIBIT 99.4
To the Shareholders of Apache Corporation:
     We have audited the accompanying statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses of the oil and gas properties purchased by Apache Corporation from BP p.l.c. (the Acquired Properties), as described in Note 1, for the year ended December 31, 2009. This financial statement is the responsibility of Apache Corporation and BP p.l.c. management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement based on our audit.
     We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statement is free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Acquired Properties' internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Acquired Properties' internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statement. An audit also includes assessing the basis of accounting used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statement. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
          The accompanying financial statement was prepared for the purpose of complying with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission for inclusion in Apache Corporation's Form 8-K/A, and is not intended to be a complete financial presentation of the Acquired Properties.
     In our opinion, the financial statement referred to above presents fairly, in all material respects, the combined revenues and direct operating expenses of the Acquired Properties for the year ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Houston, Texas November 3, 2010
 
 
(1) THE PROPERTIES
     On July 20, 2010, Apache Corporation (Apache) entered into an agreement to purchase producing properties in the Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico, Egypt's Western Desert and Western Alberta and British Columbia in Canada, from BP p.l.c. (BP), for $7.0 billion, subject to normal closing adjustments, with an effective date of July 1, 2010. The Permian Basin segment of the transaction closed August 10, 2010, the Canada segment closed October 8, 2010 and the Egypt segment is expected to close on November 4, 2010.
(2) BASIS FOR PRESENTATION
     During the periods presented, the BP properties were not accounted for or operated as a separate division by BP. Certain costs, such as depreciation, depletion and amortization, interest, accretion, general and administrative expenses, and corporate income taxes were not allocated to the individual properties. Accordingly, full separate financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles do not exist and are not practicable to obtain in these circumstances. This financial statement is not intended to be a complete presentation of the revenues and expenses of the assets and is not indicative of the financial condition or results of the operations of the acquired assets going forward due to the changes in the business and the omission of various operating expenses.
     Revenues and direct operating expenses included in the accompanying statement represent Apache's net working interest in the properties acquired for the periods prior to the respective closing dates and are presented on the accrual basis of accounting. Preparation of this financial statement in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Revenue arising from the sale of goods is recognized when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to the buyer and it can be reliably measured. Depreciation, depletion and amortization, interest, accretion, general and administrative expenses and corporate income taxes have been excluded. The financial statement presented are not indicative of the results of operations of the acquired properties going forward due to changes in the business and inclusion of the above mentioned expenses.
     Revenues attributable to the concession in Egypt include production retained by the Egyptian General Petroleum Company in lieu of the income taxes due from BP. These amounts totaled $50,910 for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $18,827 and $8,189 for the unaudited six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     Sales prices are based on current market prices at the time of sale. Total sales to affiliates were $714,778 for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $415,293 and $323,423 for the unaudited six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     Unaudited capital expenditures for the combined assets are $467,530 for the year ended December 31, 2009, and $296,816 and $251,077 for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
     As of November 3, 2010, there are preferential rights outstanding on the properties acquired by Apache in Permian valued at $40 million and Canada valued at $8.6 million. Certain rights of first refusal in Canada totaling approximately $1.6 billion are the subject of a court proceeding, as discussed in Note 3  Commitments and Contingencies below.
 
(3) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
     Pursuant to the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreements between BP and Apache, any claims, litigation or disputes pending as of the effective date (July 1, 2010) or any matters arising in connection with ownership of the properties prior to the effective date are retained by BP.
     In a lawsuit commenced on September 23, 2010, and styled as NAL GP Ltd., Applicant, and BP Canada Energy Company, BP Canada Energy, and Apache Corporation, Respondents, Action No. 1001-14115, in the Court of Queen's Bench of Alberta, Judicial District of Calgary, NAL GP Ltd. ("NAL") seeks, among other things, interim injunctive relief to freeze the 15-day notice period concerning NAL's rights of first refusal relating to certain of the Canadian assets involved in the transaction between BP and Apache announced July 20, 2010, and further a hearing concerning the allocated values associated with such assets (approximately $1.6 billion USD in the aggregate). Apache Corporation was wrongly named as a respondent in the proceeding, and so Apache Canada Ltd. has appeared in the proceeding. A hearing on NAL's application was held on September 27, 2010. On September 28, 2010, the Court dismissed NAL's application in its entirety. NAL has filed an appeal. Along with BP, Apache Canada Ltd. intends to continue to defend against NAL's claims vigorously.
(4) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
     Subsequent events have been evaluated for recognition and disclosure through November 3, 2010. The following subsequent events have occurred:
     Subsequent to June 30, 2010, Apache purchased an additional 10 percent on the Yeso oil play in Eddy County, Mexico that had been subject to preferential rights held by BP. This additional interest is not included in the statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses.
 
OIL AND GAS RESERVE INFORMATION
     Proved oil and gas reserve quantities are based on estimates prepared by BP, in accordance with guidelines established by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).
     There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The following reserve data represents estimates only and should not be construed as being exact.
 
 
FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS
     The following tables set out the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, and changes therein, relating to crude oil and natural gas production from the assets purchased by Apache from BP. This information is prepared in compliance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 932-235-50, Extractive Activities  Oil and Gas, and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Future cash inflows as of December 31, 2009 were calculated using an average of oil and gas prices in effect on the first day of each month in 2009, except where prices are defined by contractual arrangements. Operating costs, production and ad valorem taxes and future development costs are based on current costs with no escalation.
     Future net cash flows have been prepared on the basis of certain assumptions which may or may not be realized. These include the timing of future production, the estimation of crude oil and natural gas reserves and the application of average crude oil and natural gas prices from the previous 12 months. Furthermore, both proved reserves estimates and production forecasts are subject to revision as further technical information becomes available and economic conditions change. Apache cautions against relying on the information presented because of the highly arbitrary nature of the assumptions on which it is based.
     The following table sets forth unaudited information at December 31, 2009, concerning future net cash flows for oil and gas reserves, excluding income tax expense. This information does not purport to present the fair market value of the Company's oil and gas assets, but does present a standardized disclosure concerning possible future net cash flows that would result under the assumptions used.
     The following table sets forth the principal sources of change in discounted future net cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2009:

EXHIBIT 99.5
     The following unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes are presented to show the pro forma effects of the acquisition of oil and gas producing properties from BP p.l.c. (BP).
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and for the year ended December 31, 2009 are presented as if we had acquired the BP Properties on January 1, 2009. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet is based on the assumption that the BP transaction occurred effective June 30, 2010.
     Subsequent to June 30, 2010, Apache purchased an additional 10 percent on the Yeso oil play in Eddy County, Mexico that had been subject to preferential rights held by BP. This additional interest is not included in the pro forma financial statements.
     Pro forma data are based on assumptions and include adjustments as explained in the notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements. The pro forma data should not be viewed as indicative of what the actual financial position or results of operations would have been had we completed the transaction on the dates referenced above, nor are they necessarily indicative of future results. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the notes thereto, Apache's Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2009, and its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as amended, for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and the Statement of Combined Revenues and Direct Operating Expenses included herein.
     The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial statements were prepared based on the assumption that the following financing transactions occurred as of January 1, 2009, and June 30, 2010, for the pro forma condensed consolidated statements of operations, and pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet, respectively:
 
 
 
 
 
 
     The unaudited pro forma statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2009, is based on the audited financial statements of Apache for the year ended December 31, 2009, the audited statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses for the BP properties for the year ended December 31, 2009, and the adjustments and assumptions described below.
     The unaudited pro forma statement of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2010, and the unaudited pro forma balance sheet as of June 30, 2010, are based on the unaudited financial statements of Apache as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2010, the unaudited statement of combined revenues and direct operating expenses for the BP properties for the six months ended June 30, 2010, and the adjustments and assumptions described below.
 
     The following table sets forth certain unaudited pro forma information concerning Apache's proved oil and gas reserves at December 31, 2009, giving effect to the BP transaction as if it had occurred on January 1, 2009. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating the quantities of proved reserves and projecting future rates of production and timing of development expenditures. The following reserve data represents estimates only and should not be construed as being exact.
 
 
     The following table sets forth unaudited pro forma information concerning the discounted future net cash flows from proved oil and gas reserves of Apache as of December 31, 2009, net of income tax expense, and giving effect to the acquisition of the BP properties as if it had occurred on January 1, 2009. Income tax expense has been computed using assumptions relating to the future tax rates and the permanent differences and credits under the tax laws relating to oil and gas activities at December 31, 2009. Cash flows relating to the BP properties are based on Apache's evaluation of reserves and on information provided by BP. The information should be viewed only as a form of standardized disclosure concerning possible future cash flows that would result under the assumptions used, but should not be viewed as indicative of fair market value. Reference is made to Apache's financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and the Statement of Combined Revenues and Direct Operating Expenses included herein, for a discussion of the assumptions used in preparing the information presented.
     The following table sets forth the principal sources of change in discounted future net cash flows:
 


