FILE:APA/APA-8K-20100416163233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
     On April 15, 2010, Apache Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Apache"), and Mariner Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Mariner"), announced that they have entered into a definitive agreement pursuant to which Apache will acquire Mariner in a stock and cash transaction. The Agreement and Plan of Merger dated April 14, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Apache, Mariner and ZMZ Acquisitions LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Apache ("Merger Sub"), contemplates a merger (the "Merger") whereby Mariner will be merged with and into Merger Sub, with Merger Sub surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Apache.
     The total amount of cash and shares of Apache common stock that will be paid and issued, respectively, pursuant to the Merger Agreement is fixed, and Mariner stockholders will be entitled to receive (on an aggregate basis) 0.17043 of a share of Apache common stock, par value $0.625 per share, and $7.80 in cash for each share of Mariner common stock (the "Mixed Consideration"). Mariner stockholders have the right to elect to receive all cash ($26.00 per share), all Apache common stock (0.24347 of a share of Apache common stock) or the Mixed Consideration, subject to proration procedures as provided in the Merger Agreement.
     Upon completion of the Merger, each outstanding option to purchase Mariner common stock will be converted into a fully vested option to purchase 0.24347 shares of Apache common stock.
     In addition, each share of Mariner restricted stock (other than restricted stock granted pursuant to Mariner's 2008 Long-Term Performance-Based Restricted Stock Program) that is not subject to an unsatisfied price or other condition and that has not lapsed will vest and each holder will have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration as described above. Forty percent of the shares of Mariner restricted stock granted pursuant to its 2008 Long-Term Performance-Based Restricted Stock Program will vest and each holder will have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration as described above, and the remaining portion of such shares of Mariner restricted stock will be cancelled.
     The Merger Agreement has been approved by the boards of directors of Apache, Mariner, and Merger Sub. The completion of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including: (i) the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the stockholders of Mariner; (ii) subject to certain materiality exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by Apache and Mariner; (iii) the effectiveness of a registration statement on Form S-4 that will be filed by Apache for the issuance of its common stock in the Merger, and the approval of the listing of these shares on the New York Stock Exchange; (iv) the termination or expiration of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended; (v) the delivery of customary opinions from counsel to Apache and Mariner that the Merger will be treated as a tax-free reorganization for U.S. federal income tax purposes; (vi) compliance by Apache and Mariner with their respective obligations under the Merger Agreement; and (vii) the absence of legal impediments prohibiting the Merger.
Table of Contents
     The Merger Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties that the parties have made to each other as of specific dates.
     Apache and Mariner have each agreed to certain covenants in the Merger Agreement. Among other covenants, Mariner has agreed, subject to certain exceptions, not to initiate, solicit, negotiate, provide information in furtherance of, approve, recommend or enter into an Acquisition Proposal (as defined in the Merger Agreement).
     The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Apache and Mariner, including if the Merger is not completed by January 31, 2011. In the event of a termination of the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances, Mariner may be required to pay to Apache a termination fee of $67 million. In certain circumstances involving the termination of the Merger Agreement, one of Apache or Mariner will be obligated to reimburse the other's expenses incurred in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement in an aggregate amount not to exceed $7.5 million. Any reimbursement of expenses by Mariner to Apache will reduce the amount of any termination fee paid by Mariner to Apache.
     The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Merger Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
     Except for its status as a contractual document that establishes and governs the legal relations among the parties with respect to the Merger described therein, the Merger Agreement is not intended to be a source of factual, business or operational information about the parties. The representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Merger Agreement were made only for purposes of that agreement and as of specific dates, were solely for the benefit of the parties to that agreement, and may be subject to limitations agreed between those parties, including being qualified by confidential disclosures between those parties. Instead of establishing matters as facts, the representations and warranties may have been made to contractually allocate risks among the parties, including where the parties do not have complete knowledge of all facts. Furthermore, those representations and warranties may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. The assertions embodied in such representations and warranties are qualified by information contained in disclosure letters that the parties exchanged in connection with signing the Merger Agreement. Accordingly, investors and security holders should not rely on representations, warranties, covenants or any descriptions thereof as characterizations of the actual state of facts or condition of the parties. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations and warranties may change after the date of the Merger Agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in Apache's or Mariner's public disclosures.
Table of Contents
Additional Information
     This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval. Apache will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") a registration statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of Mariner that also constitutes a prospectus of Apache. A definitive proxy statement/prospectus will be mailed to stockholders of Mariner. Apache and Mariner also plan to file other documents with the SEC regarding the proposed transaction. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF MARINER ARE URGED TO READ THE PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND OTHER DOCUMENTS THAT WILL BE FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY AND IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE PROPOSED TRANSACTION. Such documents are not currently available. Investors and security holders will be able to obtain the documents (when available) free of charge at the SEC's web site, www.sec.gov. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Apache will be available free of charge on Apache's website at www.apachecorp.com under the tab "Investors" or by contacting Apache's Investor Relations Department at 713-296-6000. Copies of the documents filed with the SEC by Mariner will be available free of charge on Mariner's website at www.mariner-energy.com under the tab "Investor Information" or by contacting Mariner's Investor Relations Department at 713-954-5558. You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed with the SEC at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at (800) 732-0330 or visit the SEC's website for further information on its public reference room.
     Apache, Mariner, their respective directors and executive officers and other persons may be deemed, under SEC rules, to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from stockholders of Mariner in connection with the proposed transaction. Information regarding Apache's directors and officers can be found in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on March 31, 2010, and information regarding Mariner's directors and officers can be found in its proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 1, 2010. Additional information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests in the transaction, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available.
Forward-Looking Statements
     Statements in this document include "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The opinions, forecasts, projections, future plans or other statements other than statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements. We can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Actual results could differ materially as a result of a variety of risks and uncertainties, including: the timing to consummate the proposed agreement; the risk that a condition to closing of the proposed agreement may not be satisfied; the risk that a regulatory approval that may be required for the proposed agreement is not obtained or is obtained subject to conditions that are not anticipated; negative effects from the pendency of the merger; our ability to achieve the synergies and value creation contemplated
Table of Contents
by the proposed agreement; our ability to promptly and effectively integrate the merged businesses; and the diversion of management time on agreement-related issues. Other factors that could materially affect actual results are discussed in Apache's and Mariner's most recent Forms 10-K as well as each company's other filings with the SEC available at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Actual results may differ materially from those expected, estimated or projected. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any of them in light of new information, future events or otherwise.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     THIS AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER, executed this 14 day of April, 2010 (this ""), is by and among APACHE CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (""), ZMZ ACQUISITIONS LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Parent ("," and together with Parent, the ""), and MARINER ENERGY, INC., a Delaware corporation (the "").
th
Agreement
Parent
Merger Sub
Parent Parties
Company
     A. The respective boards of directors of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have approved this Agreement, and deem it advisable and in the best interests of their respective stockholders to merge the Company with and into Merger Sub (the "") with Merger Sub surviving the Merger upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
Merger
     B. As a result of the Merger, and in accordance with the General Corporation Law and the Limited Liability Company Act of the State of Delaware (""), each issued and outstanding share (the "") of common stock, par value $.0001 per share of the Company (the ""), other than the Company Common Stock owned by Parent, Merger Sub or the Company (or any of their respective direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiaries) and other than the Dissenting Shares (as defined in Section 1.8), shall be converted into the right to receive the Merger Consideration as set forth herein.
Delaware Law
Shares
Company Common Stock
     C. For federal income tax purposes, it is intended by the parties hereto that (i) the Merger qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""), (ii) Merger Sub be disregarded as an entity separate from Parent and (iii) this Agreement constitute a plan of reorganization within the meaning of Section 368 of the Code and such Treasury Regulations.
Code
Treasury Regulations
     In consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, the benefits to be derived by each party hereunder and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company agree as follows:
          Section 1.1 . Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in Article VI, and in accordance with Delaware Law, at the Effective Time (as defined in Section 1.2), the Company shall be merged with and into Merger Sub with Merger Sub surviving the Merger. As a result of the Merger, the separate corporate existence of the Company shall cease and Merger Sub shall continue as the surviving limited liability company of the Merger (the "").
The Merger
Surviving Company
          Section 1.2 . As promptly as practicable after the satisfaction or, if permissible, waiver of the conditions set forth in Article VI (other than conditions that by their
Effective Time; Closing
 
nature can only be satisfied at the Closing), the parties hereto shall cause the Merger to be consummated by duly filing a certificate of merger (the "") with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware in such form as is required by, and executed in accordance with the relevant provisions of, Delaware Law (the date and time of such filing or such later time as may be agreed to by Parent and the Company specified in the Certificate of Merger being the ""). In connection with such filing, a closing (the "") shall be held at the offices of Andrews Kurth LLP in Houston, Texas, or such other place as the parties shall agree. The date of the Closing is herein called the "."
Certificate of Merger
Effective Time
Closing
Closing Date
          Section 1.3 . At the Effective Time, the effect of the Merger shall be as provided in the applicable provisions of Delaware Law. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, and subject thereto, at the Effective Time, all the property, rights, privileges, powers and franchises of the Company and Merger Sub shall vest in the Surviving Company, and all debts, liabilities and duties of the Company and Merger Sub shall become the debts, liabilities and duties of the Surviving Company.
Effect of the Merger
          Section 1.4 .
Governing Instruments
          Section 1.5 . The directors and officers of Merger Sub at the Effective Time shall be the initial directors and officers, respectively, of the Surviving Company from the Effective Time until their respective successors have been duly elected or appointed. To the fullest extent permitted by law, the Company shall cause all directors of the Company to resign immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Directors and Officers of Surviving Company
          Section 1.6 . At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of Merger Sub, the Company or the holders of any of the Shares:
Conversion of Securities
 
          "" shall mean $7.80 per share.
Cash Amount Per Share
          "" means the total number of shares of the Company Common Stock outstanding; , , that regardless of the actual number of shares of the Company Common Stock outstanding, in no event shall the Deemed Shares Outstanding exceed the sum of (a) 102,045,275 (103,241,493 shares issued and outstanding on April 14, 2010 less 1,196,218 shares of restricted Company Common Stock granted by the Company pursuant to the 2008 Long-Term Performance-Based Restricted Stock Program), (b) the aggregate number of shares of the Company Common Stock, if any, that are issued after the date hereof by the Company upon the exercise of Options (all as disclosed in Section 2.3 and as exercised or vested in accordance with their terms), (c) the number of shares approved by Parent for grant pursuant to Section 4.1, (d) shares issued in accordance with Section 4.1 of the Company Schedule, and (e) the number of shares with respect to which restrictions shall lapse pursuant to Section 1.7(c).
Deemed Shares Outstanding
provided
however
          "" means 0.24347 shares of Parent Common Stock.
Exchange Ratio
          "" means $26.00 in cash.
Per Share Cash Consideration
          "" means the combination of (i) the Cash Amount Per Share and (ii) 0.17043 shares of Parent Common Stock.
Per Share Mixed Consideration
          "" means a number of shares (which need not be a whole number) of Parent Common Stock equal to the Exchange Ratio.
Per Share Stock Consideration
          "" means the product obtained by multiplying the Deemed Shares Outstanding by the Cash Amount Per Share.
Total Cash Amount
          Section 1.7 .
Employee Stock Options; Restricted Shares
 
 
          Section 1.8 .
Dissenting Shares
          Section 1.9 .
Election Procedures; Allocation of Merger Consideration
 
 
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware Law, for purposes of determining the allocations set forth in this Section 1.9, Parent shall have the right to require, but not the obligation to require (unless such requirement is necessary to satisfy the conditions set forth in Section 6.2(e) or Section 6.3(d)), that any shares of the Company Common Stock that constitute Dissenting Shares as of the Election Deadline be treated as Cash Election Shares not subject to the pro rata selection process contemplated by this Section 1.9.
          Section 1.10 .
Surrender of Shares; Stock Transfer Books
 
 
 
          Section 1.11 . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Parent, Merger Sub, the Surviving Company and the Exchange Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable to any former holder of Shares (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Restricted Shares) pursuant to this Agreement any amount as may be required to be deducted and withheld with respect to the making of such payment under applicable Tax laws. To the extent that amounts are so properly withheld by
Withholding Taxes
 
Parent, Merger Sub, the Surviving Company or the Exchange Agent, as the case may be, and are paid over to the appropriate governmental authority in accordance with applicable law, such withheld amounts shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of the Shares in respect of which such deduction and withholding was made by Parent, Merger Sub, the Surviving Company or the Exchange Agent, as the case may be.
          Section 1.12 . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article I, none of Parent, Merger Sub, the Company or the Exchange Agent shall be liable to any Person with respect to any Merger Consideration properly delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law.
No Liability
               The Company hereby represents and warrants to Parent and Merger Sub that, except as otherwise set forth (i) in the Company's Schedules to this Agreement (the "") or (ii) as reasonably apparent from the Company SEC Documents filed prior to the date hereof (excluding any forward-looking statements or any statements of a cautionary nature that are not historical facts included therein):
Company Schedule
          Section 2.1 . The Company is a corporation duly incorporated and validly existing in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. The Company (i) has the requisite corporate power and authority to own or lease its properties, to operate its operated properties, and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted and (ii) is duly licensed or qualified to do business in each jurisdiction in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character of the properties owned or leased by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, except, in the case of (i) or (ii), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect (as defined below). Each subsidiary of the Company (i) is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (ii) has the requisite corporate or other business entity power and authority to own or lease its properties, to operate its operated properties, and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted and (iii) is duly licensed or qualified to do business in each jurisdiction in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character of the properties owned or leased by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, in each case, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. When used in connection with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, the term "" means any effect, event or change that is materially adverse to the business, assets, financial condition or results of operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or that prevents or materially impedes or delays the ability of the Company to perform in all material respects its obligations under this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except, in each case, for any such effect, event or change (i) to the extent resulting from changes in the financial or securities markets or general economic or political conditions in the United States or elsewhere in the world, (ii) to the extent resulting from changes or conditions generally affecting the oil and gas exploration, development and/or production industry or industries (including changes in oil, gas or other commodity prices), (iii) to the extent resulting from any change in applicable law or the interpretation thereof or GAAP or the interpretation thereof, (iv) to the extent resulting from the negotiation, execution, announcement or consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the loss or departure of officers or other
Organization and Qualification; Subsidiaries
Company Material Adverse Effect
 
employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any adverse change in customer, distributor, supplier or similar relationships resulting therefrom, (v) to the extent resulting from acts of war, terrorism, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados or other natural disasters, (vi) to the extent resulting from any failure by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to meet any internal or published industry analyst projections or forecasts or estimates of revenues or earnings for any period (it being understood and agreed that the facts and circumstances that may have given rise or contributed to such failure that are not otherwise excluded from the definition of a Company Material Adverse Effect may be taken into account in determining whether there has been a Company Material Adverse Effect), (vii) to the extent resulting from any change in the price of the Company Stock on the NYSE (it being understood and agreed that the facts and circumstances that may have given rise or contributed to such change (but in no event changes in the trading price of Parent Stock) that are not otherwise excluded from the definition of a Company Material Adverse Effect may be taken into account in determining whether there has been a Company Material Adverse Effect), (viii) to the extent resulting from the failure to take any action as a result of any restrictions or prohibitions set forth in Section 4.1 of this Agreement with respect to which Parent refused, following the Company's request, to provide a waiver in a timely manner or at all, (ix) to the extent resulting from compliance with the terms of, or the taking of any action required by, this Agreement, (x) to the extent resulting from the downgrade in rating of any debt or debt securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (it being understood and agreed that the facts and circumstances that may have given rise or contributed to such downgrade that are not otherwise excluded from the definition of a Company Material Adverse Effect may be taken into account in determining whether there has been a Company Material Adverse Effect) and (xi) to the extent resulting from any legal proceedings arising out of or related to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, except to the extent such effects in the cases of clauses (i), (ii), and (v) above materially and disproportionately effect the Company and its subsidiaries relative to other participants in the industry or industries in which the Company and its subsidiaries operate (in which event the extent of such material and disproportionate effect may be taken into account in determining whether a Company Material Adverse Effect has occurred). A true and complete list of all of the Company's subsidiaries, together with the jurisdiction of incorporation or organization of each such subsidiary and the percentage of the outstanding capital stock of each such subsidiary owned by the Company and each other Company subsidiary, is set forth in Section 2.1 of the Company Schedule. Other than with respect to the Company subsidiaries set forth on Section 2.1 of the Company Schedule, the Company does not directly or indirectly own any equity interest in, or any interest convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for, any equity interest in, any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other business entity. The term "" means each Company subsidiary designated as such on Section 2.1 of the Company Schedule. The Company Material Subsidiaries are the only Company subsidiaries that constitute "significant subsidiaries" within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X.
Company Material Subsidiaries
          Section 2.2 . The Company has heretofore furnished to Parent a true and complete copy of its certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each as amended to date. Such certificate of incorporation and bylaws are in full force and effect as of the date of this Agreement.
Charter and Bylaws
          Section 2.3 . The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 180,000,000 Shares and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share (the ""). As of April 14, 2010, (i) 103,241,493 Shares were issued and outstanding (including, for the avoidance of doubt, Shares in the form of restricted stock issued pursuant to employee benefit plans of the Company), all of which were validly issued, fully paid
Capitalization
Company Preferred Stock
 
and nonassessable (except for any restricted stock), and none of which were issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights of any securityholder of the Company and (ii) Options to purchase an aggregate of 640,778 Shares were issued and outstanding (all of which Options were exercisable). As of the date hereof, 180,000 shares of the Company Preferred Stock have been designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock and are reserved for issuance in connection with the Company's Rights Agreement dated as October 12, 2008, as amended on the date hereof (the "," with the rights provided for therein being the ""), and no shares of the Company Preferred Stock are issued and outstanding. Since March 31, 2010 to the date of this Agreement, the Company has not issued any shares of capital stock or granted any options covering shares of capital stock, except for Shares and associated Rights issued pursuant to the exercise of Options or pursuant to any employee ownership or benefit plan. Subject to the foregoing, there are no options, warrants or other rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments of any character obligating the Company or any Company Material Subsidiary to issue or sell any shares of capital stock of, or other equity interests in, the Company or any Company Material Subsidiary. There are no outstanding contractual obligations of the Company or any Company Material Subsidiary to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock of the Company or any Company Material Subsidiary. All of the issued and outstanding capital stock or equivalent equity interests of each Company Material Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through its subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim (other than in favor of the Company or any of its subsidiaries); and none of the outstanding shares of capital stock or equivalent equity interests of the Company Material Subsidiaries were issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights arising by operation of law, or under the charter, bylaws or other comparable organizational documents of any Company Material Subsidiary or under any agreement to which the Company or any Company Material Subsidiary is a party.
Company Rights Plan
Rights
          Section 2.4 .
Authority; Due Authorization; Binding Agreement; Approval
 
          Section 2.5
No Violation; Consents.
 
          Section 2.6
Compliance.
 
          Section 2.7
SEC Filings; Financial Statements.
 
          Section 2.8
Internal Controls and Procedures.
          Section 2.9 . Except (i) as reflected or reserved against in the Company's consolidated balance sheets (or the notes thereto) included in the Company SEC Documents filed not less than two (2) business days prior to the date hereof, (ii) for liabilities and obligations arising under this Agreement and transactions contemplated or permitted by this
No Undisclosed Liabilities
 
Agreement, and (iii) for liabilities incurred since March 31, 2010 in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any liabilities or obligations of any nature, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise, whether known or unknown and whether due or to become due, required by GAAP to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company, that would be reasonably expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect.
          Section 2.10 . From January 1, 2010, until the date of this Agreement, except as contemplated by this Agreement, the Company has conducted its businesses only in the ordinary course and there has not been (i) any event having, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect, (ii) any change by the Company in its accounting methods, principles or practices materially affecting the consolidated assets, liabilities or results of operations of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries, except insofar as may have been required by a change in GAAP or (iii) any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or distribution in respect of any capital stock of the Company or any redemption, purchase or other acquisition for value of any of its capital stock.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
          Section 2.11 . Except with respect to Tax matters or Environmental Laws, which are addressed exclusively in Sections 2.16 and 2.17, respectively, there is no action, suit, claim, proceeding or governmental investigation, either at law or in equity, before or by any court or governmental authority now pending, or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened, against the Company or any of its subsidiaries that would be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
          Section 2.12
Employee Benefit Plans.
 
 
 
          Section 2.13 . None of the information to be supplied by the Company for inclusion in (a) the proxy statement relating to the Company Stockholders Meeting (as defined below) (also constituting the prospectus in respect of Parent Common Shares into which the Company Common Shares will be converted) (the ""), to be filed by the Company and Parent with the SEC, and any amendments or supplements thereto, or (b) the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (the "") to be filed by Parent with the SEC in connection with the Merger, and any amendments or supplements thereto, will, at the respective times such documents are filed, and, in the case of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, at the time the Proxy Statement/Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto is first mailed to the Company stockholders and at the time of the Company Stockholders Meeting, and, in the case of the Registration Statement, when it becomes effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be made therein or necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Proxy Statement
Proxy Statement/Prospectus
Registration Statement
          Section 2.14 .
Properties; Oil and Gas Matters
 
 
 
          Section 2.15 . Section 2.15 of the Company Schedule sets forth all outstanding obligations as of the date hereof of the Company and each of its subsidiaries for the delivery of Hydrocarbons attributable to any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries in the future on account of prepayment, advance payment, take-or-pay, forward sale or similar obligations without then or thereafter being entitled to receive full value therefor. Except as set forth in Section 2.15 of the Company Schedule, as of the date hereof, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is bound by futures, hedge, swap, collar, put, call, floor, cap, option or other contracts that are intended to benefit from, relate to or reduce or eliminate the risk of fluctuations in the price of commodities, including Hydrocarbons, or securities.
Hedging
          Section 2.16 . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect:
Taxes
 
          For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean all federal, state, local, foreign and other taxes, charges, fees, levies, imposts, duties, licenses or other assessments, together with any interest, penalties, additions to tax or additional amounts imposed by any taxing authority.
Taxes
          Section 2.17 . To the Company's knowledge:
Environmental Matters
 
          As used herein, "" means any substance presently listed, defined, designated or classified as hazardous, toxic, radioactive or dangerous, or otherwise regulated, under any applicable law, including, without limitation, any toxic waste, pollutant, contaminant, hazardous substance, toxic substance, hazardous waste, special waste or petroleum or any derivative or byproduct thereof, radon, radioactive material, asbestos or asbestos containing material, urea formaldehyde, foam insulation or polychlorinated biphenyls. Hazardous Substance includes any substance to which exposure is regulated by any Governmental Entity or under any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Substance
 
          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained elsewhere in this Agreement, the Company makes no representation in this Agreement regarding any compliance or failure to comply with, or any actual or contingent liability under, or claims, demands, actions, proceedings, lawsuits or investigations with respect to any Environmental Law, except as set forth in this Section 2.17.
          Section 2.18 . Except for such matters which would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received written notice during the two years ending on the date hereof of the intent of any Governmental Entity responsible for the enforcement of labor, employment, occupational health and safety or workplace safety and insurance/workers compensation laws to conduct an investigation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, no such investigation is in progress. Except for such matters which would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no (and have not been during the two year period preceding the date hereof) strikes or lockouts with respect to any employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries (the ""), (ii) to the knowledge of the Company, there is no (and has not been during the two year period preceding the date hereof) union organizing effort pending or threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (iii) there is no (and has not been during the two year period preceding the date hereof) unfair labor practice, labor dispute (other than routine individual grievances) or labor arbitration proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (iv) there is no (and has not been during the two year period preceding the date hereof) slowdown or work stoppage in effect or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened with respect to the Company Employees and (v) the Company and its subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable laws respecting employment and employment practices, terms and conditions of employment and wages and hours and unfair labor practices. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has any liabilities under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder (the "") or any similar state or local law as a result of any action taken by the Company that would, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a party to any collective bargaining agreements.
Labor Matters
Company Employees
WARN Act
          Section 2.19 . Except for employment Contracts filed as an exhibit to or incorporated by reference in a Company SEC Document filed prior to the date hereof and except for the Company Benefit Plans, Section 2.19 of the Company Schedule sets forth a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of the contracts, arrangements that are in existence as of the date of this Agreement or transactions under which the Company or any of its subsidiaries has any existing or future liabilities (an ""), between the Company or any of its subsidiaries, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, any (A) present executive officer or director of the Company or any person that has served as such an executive officer or director within the past two years or any of such executive officer's or director's immediate family members, (B) record or beneficial owner of more than 5% of the Shares as of the date hereof, or (C) to the knowledge of the Company, any affiliate of any such executive officer, director or owner (other than the Company or any of its subsidiaries).
Interested Party Transactions
Affiliate Transaction
          Section 2.20 . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, either the Company or a Company subsidiary owns, or is licensed or otherwise possesses adequate rights to use, the Intellectual Property. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably
Intellectual Property
 
expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened claims by any person alleging infringement by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or with regard to the ownership, validity or use of any Intellectual Property of the Company, (ii) to the knowledge of the Company, the conduct of the business of the Company and its subsidiaries does not infringe any intellectual property rights of any person, (iii) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has made any claim of a violation or infringement by others of its rights to or in connection with the Intellectual Property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, and (iv) to the knowledge of the Company, no person is infringing any Intellectual Property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. To the knowledge of the Company, upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein, the Company shall own or have the right to use all Intellectual Property on the same terms and conditions as the Company and its subsidiaries enjoyed prior to such transaction, except (i) with respect to seismic data or software licenses containing a provision limiting the Company's rights upon consummation of the Merger or (ii) where the failure to so own or have the right to use would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
          As used herein, "" means all material trademarks, trade names, service marks, service names, mark registrations, logos, assumed names, registered and unregistered copyrights, patents or applications and registrations, domain names, internet addresses and other computer identifiers, web sites and web pages, computer software programs and related documentation, trade secrets, know-how, customer information, confidential business information, technical information and seismic data licenses used in Parent's or the Company's respective businesses as currently conducted.
Intellectual Property
          Section 2.21 .
Material Contracts
 
All contracts of the type described in this Section 2.21(a) together with the contracts for the sale of Hydrocarbons produced from any of the Company's or its subsidiaries' properties described in the Reserve Reports that are fixed price sales agreements with a remaining term of 90 days or more (other than agreements that can be terminated upon 90 days or less notice) and are set forth on Section 2.21(a) of the Company Schedule, are referred to herein as the "".
Company Material Contracts
          Section 2.22 . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, the Company and its subsidiaries maintain, or are entitled to the benefits of, insurance covering their properties,
Insurance
 
operations, personnel and businesses in the amounts set forth on Section 2.22 of the Company Schedule. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, none of the Company or its subsidiaries has received written notice from any insurer or agent of such insurer that substantial capital improvements or other expenditures will have to be made in order to continue such insurance, and all such insurance is outstanding and duly in force on the date hereof and will be (or materially similar replacement insurance will be) outstanding and duly in force on the Closing Date. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is in breach or default under, or has taken any action which could permit termination or material modification of, any material insurance policies and (ii) no notice in writing of cancellation or termination has been received with respect to any material insurance policy and no such policy shall terminate or give rise to a right of cancellation by reason of the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement. The Company has not been refused any insurance with respect to its assets, properties or businesses, nor has any such coverage been materially limited by any insurance carrier to which the Company has applied for any such insurance or with which the Company has carried insurance during the three years ending on the date hereof.
          Section 2.23 . No broker, finder or investment banker (other than the Company Financial Advisors) is entitled to any brokerage, finder's or other fee or commission in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of the Company. Section 2.23 of the Company Schedule contains the Company's good faith estimate as of the date of this Agreement of all fees, expenses or commissions that will be paid or will be payable by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to financial advisors for the provision of services to the Company in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Brokers; Transaction Fees
          Section 2.24 . Subject to the accuracy of the representations in Section 3.23, the Company Board of Directors has approved this Agreement and taken all other requisite action, if any, necessary to render the restrictions on "business combinations" set forth in Section 203 of Delaware Law (or in any applicable similar or other anti-takeover laws of any state) and any provisions of the Company's certificate of incorporation relating to special voting requirements for certain business combinations inapplicable to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby.
Takeover Provisions
          Section 2.25 . The Company has taken all requisite corporate action, if any, necessary so that the entering into of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby do not require the Rights under the Company Rights Plan to separate from the Shares to which they are attached or to be triggered or become exercisable.
Rights Agreement
          Section 2.26 . Neither the Company nor any of its affiliates has taken or agreed to take any action, or is aware of any fact or circumstance, that would prevent the Merger from qualifying as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368 of the Code.
Tax Treatment
          Section 2.27 . Neither the Company nor any of the Company's subsidiaries has designated or appointed any person or other entity to act for it or on its behalf pursuant to any power of attorney or any agency which shall continue after the Closing Date.
Agents
          Section 2.28 . Other than the Oil and Gas Properties and properties with an estimated value of less than $25 million, Section 2.28 of the Company Schedule contains a complete and correct list of all real property owned as of the date hereof by the Company and the Company's subsidiaries. No covenants, easements, rights-of-way, or
Owned Real Property
 
regulations of record impair the uses of such real properties for the purposes for which they are now operated, except for such items as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect.
          Section 2.29 . Other than (i) the Oil and Gas Properties and (ii) leases with (A) annual rental payments of less than $1 million and (B) aggregate rental payments of less than $5 million for the remaining term thereof, Section 2.29 of the Company Schedule contains a complete and correct list of all real property leases and any and all amendments thereto relating to the leased real property to which the Company and the Company's subsidiaries are a party or are bound as of the date hereof (the ""). Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Company Material Adverse Effect, (i) each of the Real Property Leases is in full force and effect, and, to the Company's knowledge, is enforceable against the landlord which is party thereto in accordance with its terms (except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization and similar laws affecting creditors generally and by the availability of equitable remedies), (ii) there are no subleases under the Real Property Leases and none of the Real Property Leases has been assigned, (iii) no notices of default or notices of termination have been received by the Company with respect to the Real Property Leases which have not been withdrawn or cancelled and (iv) the Company and the Company's subsidiaries are not, and to the Company's knowledge, no other party is, in default under any Real Property Lease. There is no Company knowledge of any written notice of, a proceeding in eminent domain or other similar proceeding affecting property listed on Section 2.29 of the Company Schedule.
Leased Real Property
Real Property Leases
          Parent and Merger Sub hereby, jointly and severally, represent and warrant to the Company that, except as otherwise set forth (i) in the Parent Parties' Schedules to this Agreement (the "") or (ii) as reasonably apparent from the Parent SEC Documents filed prior to the date hereof (excluding any forward-looking statements or any statements of a cautionary nature that are not historical facts included therein):
Parent Schedule
          Section 3.1 . Parent is a corporation duly incorporated and validly existing in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and Merger Sub is a limited liability company duly organized and validly existing in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Each of Parent and Merger Sub (i) has the requisite corporate power and authority to own or lease its properties, to operate its operated properties, and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted and (ii) is duly licensed or qualified to do business in each jurisdiction in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character of the properties owned or leased by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, except, in the case of (i) or (ii), as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect on Parent (as defined below). Each subsidiary of Parent (i) is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (ii) has the requisite corporate or other business entity power and authority to own or lease its properties and to carry on its business as it is now being conducted and (iii) is duly licensed or qualified to do business in each jurisdiction in which the nature of the business conducted by it or the character of the properties owned or leased by it makes such licensing or qualification necessary, in each case, except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. When used in
Organization and Qualification; Subsidiaries
 
connection with Parent or any of its subsidiaries, the term "" means any effect, event or change that is materially adverse to the business, assets, financial condition or results of operations of Parent and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or that prevents or materially impedes or delays the ability of Parent to perform in all material respects its obligations under this Agreement or to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except, in each case, for any such effect, event or change (i) to the extent resulting from changes in the financial or securities markets or general economic or political conditions in the United States or elsewhere in the world, (ii) to the extent resulting from changes or conditions generally affecting the oil and gas exploration, development and/or production industry or industries (including changes in oil, gas or other commodity prices), (iii) to the extent resulting from any change in applicable law or the interpretation thereof or GAAP or the interpretation thereof, (iv) to the extent resulting from the negotiation, execution, announcement or consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including the loss or departure of officers or other employees of the Parent or any of its subsidiaries or any adverse change in customer, distributor, supplier or similar relationships resulting therefrom, (v) to the extent resulting from acts of war, terrorism, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornados or other natural disasters, (vi) to the extent resulting from any failure by the Parent or any of its subsidiaries to meet any internal or published industry analyst projections or forecasts or estimates of revenues or earnings for any period (it being understood and agreed that the facts and circumstances that may have given rise or contributed to such failure that are not otherwise excluded from the definition of a Parent Material Adverse Effect may be taken into account in determining whether there has been a Parent Material Adverse Effect), (vii) to the extent resulting from any change in the price of the Parent Stock on the NYSE (it being understood and agreed that the facts and circumstances that may have given rise or contributed to such change (but in no event changes in the trading price of Company Stock) that are not otherwise excluded from the definition of a Parent Material Adverse Effect may be taken into account in determining whether there has been a Parent Material Adverse Effect), (viii) to the extent resulting from the failure to take any action as a result of any restrictions or prohibitions set forth in Section 4.2 of this Agreement with respect to which Company refused, following the Parent's request, to provide a waiver in a timely manner or at all, (ix) to the extent resulting from compliance with the terms of, or the taking of any action required by, this Agreement, (x) to the extent resulting from the downgrade in rating of any debt or debt securities of the Parent or any of its subsidiaries (it being understood and agreed that the facts and circumstances that may have given rise or contributed to such downgrade that are not otherwise excluded from the definition of a Parent Material Adverse Effect may be taken into account in determining whether there has been a Parent Material Adverse Effect) and (xi) to the extent resulting from any legal proceedings arising out of or related to this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby, except to the extent such effects in the cases of clauses (i), (ii), and (v) above materially and disproportionately effect the Parent and its subsidiaries relative to other participants in the industry or industries in which the Parent and its subsidiaries operate (in which event the extent of such material and disproportionate effect may be taken into account in determining whether a Parent Material Adverse Effect has occurred).
Parent Material Adverse Effect
          Section 3.2 . Each of Parent and Merger Sub has heretofore furnished to the Company true and complete copies of its certificate of incorporation and bylaws and certificate of formation and limited liability company agreement, as applicable, each as amended to date. Such certificate of incorporation, bylaws, certificate of formation and limited liability company agreement are in full force and effect as of the date of this Agreement.
Charter; Bylaws and Organizational Documents
          Section 3.3 . The authorized capital stock of Parent consists of
Capitalization
 
430,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.625 per share of Parent ("") and 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value per share (""), of which 100,000 shares have been designated Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock. As of March 31, 2010, (i) 337,127,264 shares of Parent Common Stock were issued and outstanding (including, for the avoidance of doubt, shares of Parent Common Stock in the form of restricted stock issued pursuant to employee or non-employee director benefit plans of Parent), all of which were validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable (except for any restricted stock), and none of which were issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights of any securityholder of Parent, (ii) options to purchase an aggregate of 5,655,794 shares were issued and outstanding (of which options to purchase an aggregate of 3,031,663 shares were exercisable), (iii) restricted stock units relating to an aggregate of 6,034,202 shares were issued and outstanding, and (iv) deferred stock units relating to an aggregate of 159,026 shares were issued and outstanding. As of March 31, 2010, 15,408 shares of the Parent Preferred Stock are reserved for issuance in connection with Parent's Rights Agreement dated January 31, 1996, as amended January 31, 2006 (the "". As of March 31, 2010, 7,595,503 shares of Parent Common Stock were held by Parent in its treasury. From March 31, 2010, to the date of this Agreement, Parent has not issued any shares of capital stock or granted any options or restricted stock units covering shares of capital stock, except for shares of Parent Common Stock and associated Parent Rights issued pursuant to the exercise of options or vesting of restricted stock units or pursuant to any employee ownership or benefit plan. Subject to the foregoing, there are no options, warrants or other rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments of any character obligating Parent or any Parent Material Subsidiary to issue or sell any shares of capital stock of, or other equity interests in, Parent or any Parent Material Subsidiary. Except for contractual obligations between Parent and Parent Material Subsidiaries, there are no outstanding contractual obligations of Parent or any Parent Material Subsidiary to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock of Parent or any Parent Material Subsidiary. All of the issued and outstanding capital stock or equivalent equity interests of each Parent Material Subsidiary have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and (except for directors' qualifying shares or shares representing an immaterial equity interest that are required under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction to be owned by others), are owned by Parent, directly or through its subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim (other than in favor of Parent or any of its subsidiaries and other than as pledged under Parent's Amended and Restated Credit Agreement); and none of the outstanding shares of capital stock or equivalent equity interests of the Parent Material Subsidiaries were issued in violation of any preemptive or similar rights arising by operation of law, or under the charter, bylaws or other comparable organizational documents of any Parent Material Subsidiary or under any agreement to which Parent or any Parent Material Subsidiary is a party. The term "" means each Parent subsidiary designated as such on Section 3.3 of the Parent Schedule. The Parent Material Subsidiaries are the only Parent subsidiaries that constitute "significant subsidiaries" within the meaning of Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X.
Parent Common Stock
Parent Preferred Stock
Parent Rights Plan
Parent Material Subsidiaries
          Section 3.4
Authority; Due Authorization; Binding Agreement.
 
          Section 3.5
No Violation; Consents.
 
          Section 3.6
Compliance.
 
          Section 3.7
SEC Filings; Financial Statements.
 
          Section 3.8
Internal Controls and Procedures.
          Section 3.9 . Except (i) as reflected or reserved against in Parent's consolidated balance sheets (or the notes thereto) included in Parent SEC Documents filed not less than two (2) business days prior to the date hereof, (ii) for liabilities and obligations arising under this Agreement and transactions contemplated or permitted by this Agreement, and (iii) for liabilities and obligations incurred since March 31, 2010 in the ordinary course of
No Undisclosed Liabilities
 
business consistent with past practice, neither Parent nor any subsidiary of Parent has any liabilities or obligations of any nature, whether or not accrued, contingent or otherwise, whether known or unknown and whether due or to become due, required by GAAP to be set forth on a consolidated balance sheet of Parent, that would be reasonably expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
          Section 3.10 . From January 1, 2010, until the date of this Agreement, except as contemplated by this Agreement, Parent has conducted its businesses only in the ordinary course and there has not been (i) any event having, individually or in the aggregate, a Parent Material Adverse Effect, (ii) any change by Parent in its accounting methods, principles or practices materially affecting the consolidated assets, liabilities or results of operations of Parent and its consolidated subsidiaries, except insofar as may have been required by a change in GAAP or (iii) any declaration, setting aside or payment of any dividend or distribution in respect of any capital stock of Parent or any redemption, purchase or other acquisition for value of any of its capital stock, other than regular quarterly dividends not in excess of the amount paid for the most recent quarter.
Absence of Certain Changes or Events
          Section 3.11 . Except with respect to employee benefit or Tax matters or Environmental Laws, which are addressed exclusively in Sections 3.12, 3.16 and 3.17, respectively, there is no action, suit, claim, proceeding or governmental investigation, either at law or in equity, before or by any court or governmental authority now pending, or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened, against Parent or any of its subsidiaries that would be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
          Section 3.12 .
Employee Benefit Plans
 
 
 
          Section 3.13 . None of the information to be supplied by Parent for inclusion in (a) the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, to be filed by the Company with the SEC, and any amendments or supplements thereto, or (b) the Registration Statement to be filed by Parent with the SEC in connection with the Merger, and any amendments or supplements thereto, will, at the respective times such documents are filed, and, in the case of the Proxy Statement, at the time the Proxy Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto is first mailed to the Company stockholders and at the time of the Company Stockholders Meeting, and, in the case of the Registration Statement, when it becomes effective under the Securities Act, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be made therein or necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Proxy Statement
          Section 3.14
Properties; Oil and Gas Matters.
 
 
          Section 3.15 . The Parent SEC Reports set forth all outstanding obligations as of the date hereof of Parent and each of its subsidiaries for the delivery of Hydrocarbons attributable to any of the properties of Parent or any of its subsidiaries in the future on account of prepayment, advance payment, take-or-pay, forward sale or similar obligations without then or thereafter being entitled to receive full value therefor, except for any such obligations that are not required to be set forth under the applicable provisions of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder.
Hedging
          Section 3.16 . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect:
Taxes
 
          Section 3.17 . To Parent's knowledge:
Environmental Matters
 
          Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained elsewhere in this Agreement, Parent makes no representation in this Agreement regarding any compliance or failure to comply with, or any actual or contingent liability under, or claims, demands, actions, proceedings, lawsuits or investigations with respect to any Environmental Law, except as set forth in this Section 3.17.
          Section 3.18 . Except for such matters which would not be reasonably expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Parent Material Adverse Effect, neither Parent nor any of its subsidiaries has received written notice during the two years ending on the date hereof of the intent of any Governmental Entity responsible for the enforcement of labor, employment, occupational health and safety or workplace safety and insurance/workers compensation laws to conduct an investigation of Parent or any of its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of Parent, no such investigation is in progress. Except for such matters which would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no (and have not been during the two year period preceding the date hereof) strikes or lockouts with respect to any employees of Parent or any of its subsidiaries (""), (ii) to the knowledge of Parent, there is no (and has not been during the two year period preceding the date hereof) union organizing effort pending or threatened against Parent or any of its subsidiaries, (iii) here is no (and has not been during the two year period preceding the date hereof) unfair labor practice, labor dispute (other than routine individual grievances) or labor arbitration proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened against Parent or any of its subsidiaries, (iv) there is no (and has not been during the two year period preceding the date hereof) slowdown or work stoppage in effect or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened with respect to Parent Employees and (v) Parent and its subsidiaries are in compliance with all applicable laws respecting employment and employment practices, terms and conditions of employment and wages and hours and unfair labor practices. Neither Parent nor any of its subsidiaries has any liabilities under the WARN Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder or any similar state or local law as a result of any action taken by Parent that would, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect. Neither Parent nor any of its subsidiaries is a party to any collective bargaining agreements. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect, all individuals that have been or that are classified by Parent as independent contractors have been and are correctly so classified, and none of such individuals could reasonably be classified as an employee of Parent.
Labor Matters
Parent Employees
          Section 3.19 . Except for disclosure in the Parent SEC Documents, employment Contracts filed as an exhibit to or incorporated by reference in a Parent SEC Document filed prior to the date hereof and except for Parent Benefit Plans, there are no other contracts, arrangements that are in existence as of the date of this Agreement or transactions under which Parent or any of its subsidiaries has any existing or future liabilities for an Affiliate Transaction.
Interested Party Transactions
          Section 3.20 . Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect, either Parent or a subsidiary
Intellectual Property
 
of Parent owns, or is licensed or otherwise possesses adequate rights to use, its Intellectual Property. Except as would not, individually or in the aggregate, be reasonably expected to have a Parent Material Adverse Effect, (i) there are no pending or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened claims by any person alleging infringement by Parent or any of its subsidiaries or with regard to the ownership, validity or use of any Intellectual Property of Parent, (ii) to the knowledge of Parent, the conduct of the business of Parent and its subsidiaries does not infringe any intellectual property rights of any person, (iii) neither Parent nor any of its subsidiaries has made any claim of a violation or infringement by others of its rights to or in connection with the Intellectual Property of Parent or any of its subsidiaries, and (iv) to the knowledge of Parent, no person is infringing any Intellectual Property of Parent or any of its subsidiaries. To the knowledge of Parent, upon the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein, Parent shall own or have the right to use all Intellectual Property on the same terms and conditions as Parent and its subsidiaries enjoyed prior to such transaction.
          Section 3.21 . Except as would not be reasonably expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Parent Material Adverse Effect, Parent and its subsidiaries maintain, or are entitled to the benefits of, insurance covering their properties, operations, personnel and businesses with policy limits, coverage provisions, deductibles, co-insurance limits, waiting periods, and other provisions that a prudently operated exploration and productions company would maintain.
Insurance
          Section 3.22 . No broker, finder or investment banker (other than the Parent Financial Advisor) is entitled to any brokerage, finder's or other fee or commission in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby based upon arrangements made by or on behalf of Parent or Merger Sub.
Brokers
          Section 3.23 . Neither Parent nor Merger Sub is, nor have either of them during the past three years been, the beneficial owner (as defined herein) of any Shares or has "owned" any Shares within the meaning of Section 203 of Delaware Law.
Ownership of Shares
          Section 3.24 . Neither Parent nor Merger Sub is entering into the transactions contemplated by this Agreement with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud either present or future creditors. Assuming that the representations and warranties of the Company contained in this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects, at and immediately after the Effective Time, and after giving effect to the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby, the Surviving Company (a) will be solvent (in that both the fair value of its assets will not be less than the sum of its debts and that the present fair saleable value of its assets will not be less than the amount required to pay its probable liability on its debts as they become absolute and matured); (b) will have adequate capital and liquidity with which to engage in its business; and (c) will not have incurred debts beyond its ability to pay as they become absolute and matured.
Solvency; Surviving Company After the Merger
          Section 3.25 . Neither Parent nor any of its affiliates has taken or agreed to take any action, or is aware of any fact or circumstance, that would prevent the Merger from qualifying as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368 of the Code.
Tax Treatment
          Section 3.26 . No vote of the holders or any class or series of Parent capital stock is necessary in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
No Vote Required
          Section 3.27 . Parent and Merger Sub have as of the date hereof, and will
Financing
 
have immediately prior to the Effective Time, sufficient funds in the form of cash or cash equivalents (i) to pay the cash portion of the Merger Consideration and (ii) for any other amounts payable by Parent or Merger Sub under this Agreement.
          Section 4.1 . The Company covenants and agrees that, between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, except (i) with the prior written consent of Parent, which may not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned, (ii) as contemplated by this Agreement or by Section 4.1 of the Company Schedule or (iii) for transactions between or among the Company and its subsidiaries:
Conduct of the Company Business
 
 
 
          Section 4.2 . Parent covenants and agrees that, between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, except (i) with the prior written consent of the Company, which may not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned, (ii) as contemplated by this Agreement or by Section 4.2 of the Parent Schedule hereto or (iii) for transactions between or among Parent and its subsidiaries:
Conduct of Parent Business
 
          Section 5.1 .
Proxy Statement; Stockholders Meeting
 
 
          Section 5.2 .
Access to Information; Confidentiality
          Section 5.3 .
No Solicitation
 
 
 
          Section 5.4 .
Directors' and Officers' Indemnification and Insurance
 
 
          Section 5.5 . Each of the Company and Parent shall promptly notify and provide copies to the other of the following upon knowledge thereof:
Notification of Certain Matters
          (a) any written notice from any governmental authority alleging that the consent or approval of such governmental authority is required to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or written notice from any other Person alleging that the consent of such Person is required to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
          (b) any notice or other communication from any governmental authority in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
          (c) any claim, action, suit, arbitration, mediation, inquiry, proceeding or investigation commenced or, to its knowledge, threatened against, relating to or involving or otherwise affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries or Parent or any of its subsidiaries, as the case may be, that, if pending on the date of this Agreement, would have been required to have been disclosed pursuant to any of such party's representations or warranties, as the case may be, or that are material and relate to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and
          (d) any occurrence or event that is reasonably likely to cause an inaccuracy of any representation or warranty of that party contained in this Agreement at any time during the term hereof that could reasonably be expected to cause any condition set forth in Article VI not to be satisfied.
          Section 5.6 .
Governmental Filings; Efforts
 
 
          Section 5.7 . Parent and the Company shall consult with each other before issuing any press release or otherwise making any public statements (including press conferences or conference calls with investors or analysts, but excluding routine employee communications) with respect to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby and shall not issue any such press release or make any such public statement prior to such consultation, except as may be required by law or any listing agreement with a national securities exchange to which Parent or the Company is a party, in which case the party required to make the release or announcement shall use its reasonable best efforts to allow the other party reasonable time to comment on such release or announcement in advance of such issuance, it being understood that the final form and content of any such release or announcement, to the extent so required, shall be at the final discretion of the disclosing party. This Section 5.7 shall not apply to any release or announcement with respect to a Change in the Company Recommendation.
Public Announcements
          Section 5.8 . Parent agrees to take all action necessary to cause Merger Sub to perform all of Merger Sub's, and the Surviving Company to perform all of the Surviving Company's, agreements, covenants and obligations under this Agreement and to consummate the Merger on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement. Parent shall be liable for any breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement of Merger Sub in this Agreement and for any breach of this covenant.
Parent Guarantee
          Section 5.9 .
Employee Matters
 
          Section 5.10 . Prior to the Effective Time, the Company may take steps reasonably necessary to cause dispositions of Shares (including derivative securities) pursuant to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement by each individual who is a director or officer who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act to be exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated thereunder in accordance with procedures in such rule or under that certain No-Action Letter dated January 12, 1999 issued by the SEC regarding such matters.
Rule 16b-3
          Section 5.11 . Subject to a customary joint defense agreement, the Company shall give Parent the opportunity to participate in full in, but not control, the defense or settlement of any stockholder litigation against the Company and/or its directors relating to the Merger or any other transactions contemplated hereby prior to the Effective Time.
Stockholder Litigation
          Section 5.12 . If any "fair price," "moratorium," "control share acquisition" or other form of anti-takeover statute or regulation shall become applicable to the Merger or the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement, each of the Company and Parent and the members of their respective Boards of Directors shall grant such approvals and take such actions as are reasonably necessary so that the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated herein and otherwise act to eliminate or minimize the effects of such statute or regulation on the Merger and the other transactions contemplated hereby.
Takeover Statute
          Section 5.13 .
Reorganization
 
          Section 5.14 . In connection with the information regarding the Company, the Parent and their respective subsidiaries or the Merger provided by the Company or the Parent, as the case may be, specifically for inclusion in, or incorporation by reference into, the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, each Party shall use all reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered to other Party a letter of its respective independent public accounting firm, dated the date on which the Proxy Statement/Prospectus shall become effective and addressed to Parent or the Company, as applicable, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent and the Company, as applicable, and customary in scope and substance for letters delivered by independent public accountants in connection with registration statements similar to the Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
Comfort Letters
          Section 5.15 . The Company hereby consents to Parent's inclusion of any audited or unaudited financial statements, including those contained in any Company SEC Documents, relating to and prepared by the Company reasonably requested by Parent to be used in any financing or any filings that Parent desires to make with the SEC. In addition, the Company will use reasonable best efforts, at Parent's sole cost and expense, to obtain customary comfort letters from Deloitte & Touche LLP regarding financial statements of the Company as reasonably requested by the lead underwriter(s) or initial purchaser(s) in connection with any registered or private offering or otherwise and to obtain the consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP to the inclusion of the financial statements referenced above in appropriate filings with the SEC. Prior to the Closing, the Company will provide Parent such information regarding the Company's business, and make available such personnel, as Parent may reasonably request in order to assist Parent in connection with financing activities, including any public offerings to be registered under the Securities Act or private offerings.
Consent to Use of Financial Statements
 
          Section 6.1 . The respective obligations of each party to effect the Merger shall be subject to the satisfaction on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of Each Party to Effect the Merger
          Section 6.2 . The obligations of Parent and Merger Sub to effect the Merger are also subject to the satisfaction or waiver by Parent on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of Parent and Merger Sub
 
          Section 6.3 . The obligations of the Company to effect the Merger are also subject to the satisfaction or waiver by the Company on or prior to the Closing Date of the following conditions:
Conditions to the Obligations of the Company
 
          Section 6.4 . No party may rely on the failure of any condition set forth in this Article VI to be satisfied if such failure was caused by such party's failure to act in good faith or to use its reasonable best efforts to consummate the Merger and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
Frustration of Conditions
          Section 7.1 . This Agreement may be terminated and the Merger may be abandoned at any time prior to the Effective Time, notwithstanding the adoption of this Agreement by the stockholders of the Company:
Termination
 
          Section 7.2 . In the event that the Effective Time does not occur as a result of any party hereto exercising its rights to terminate pursuant to this Article VII, then this Agreement shall be null and void and, except as provided in Sections 7.3 and 8.1 or as otherwise expressly provided herein, no party shall have any rights or obligations under this Agreement, except that no such termination shall relieve any party from liability for damages for any willful and material breach of any agreement or covenant contained herein. In the event the termination of this Agreement results from the willful and material breach of any agreement or covenant herein, then the Parent Parties or the Company, as the case may be, shall be entitled to all remedies available at law or in equity and shall be entitled to recover court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees in addition to any other relief to which it may be entitled.
Effect of Termination
          Section 7.3
Fees and Expenses.
 
 
          Section 7.4 . This Agreement may not be amended except by an instrument in writing signed by all parties hereto; , that after the Company Stockholder Approval has been obtained, no amendment shall be made that by law requires the further approval of the Company stockholders without such further approval.
Amendment
provided, however
          Section 7.5 . At any time prior to the Effective Time, the Parent Parties, on one hand, or the Company, on the other hand, may (i) extend the time for the performance of any obligation or other act of the Company or the Parent Parties, respectively, hereto, (ii) waive any inaccuracy in the representations and warranties of the Company or the Parent Parties, respectively, contained herein or in any document delivered pursuant hereto and (iii) waive compliance with any agreement or condition contained herein applicable, respectively, to the Company or the Parent Parties. Any such extension or waiver shall be valid if set forth in an instrument in writing signed by the party or parties to be bound thereby.
Waiver
          Section 8.1 . The agreements in Articles I and VIII and Sections 5.4 and 5.9 of this Agreement shall survive the Merger. This Article VIII and the agreements made by the parties hereto in Sections 5.2(b), 7.2 and 7.3 of this Agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement. The remainder of the representations, warranties and agreements in this Agreement or in any schedule, exhibit, instrument or other document delivered pursuant to this Agreement shall terminate at the Effective Time or upon termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 7.1.
Survival
          Section 8.2
Scope of Representations and Warranties.
 
          Section 8.3 . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given (and shall be deemed to have been duly given upon receipt) by delivery in person, by cable, telecopy, facsimile, telegram or telex or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective parties at the following addresses (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this Section 8.3):
Notices
if to Parent or Merger Sub:
Apache Corporation 2000 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 100 Houston, Texas 77056 Attention: G. Steven Farris Telephone: (713) 296-6000 Telecopy: (713) 296-6460
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to:
Apache Corporation 2000 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 100 Houston, Texas 77056 Attention: P. Anthony Lannie Telephone: (713) 296-6000 Telecopy: (713) 296-6458
and
Andrews Kurth LLP 600 Travis, Suite 4200 Houston, Texas 77002 Attention: John B. Clutterbuck Telephone: (713) 220-4730
 
Telecopy: (713) 238-7363
if to the Company:
Mariner Energy, Inc. One BriarLake Plaza, Suite 2000 2000 West Sam Houston Parkway South Houston, Texas 77042 Attention: Scott D. Josey Telephone: (713) 954-5500 Telecopy: (713) 954-5555
with a copy, which shall not constitute notice, to:
Mariner Energy, Inc. One BriarLake Plaza, Suite 2000 2000 West Sam Houston Parkway South Houston, Texas 77042 Attention: Teresa G. Bushman Telephone: (713) 954-5505 Telecopy: (713) 954-3820
and
Baker Botts L.L.P. One Shall Plaza 910 Louisiana Street Houston, Texas 77002-4995 Attention: Kelly B. Rose
  M. Breen Haire
Telephone: (713) 229-1234 Telecopy: (713) 229-7996
          Section 8.4 . For purposes of this Agreement:
Certain Definitions
 
 
          Section 8.5 . If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced by any rule of law, or public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby are not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
Severability
          Section 8.6 . This Agreement, the Company Schedule and the Parent Schedule, constitutes the entire agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, among the parties, or any of them, with respect to the subject matter hereof, except that the Confidentiality Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. This Agreement shall not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise.
Entire Agreement; Assignment
          Section 8.7 . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each party hereto, and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall confer upon any other person any right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement, other than Sections 1.7, 5.4 and 5.9 and, from and after the Effective Time, Section 1.6 (which are intended to be for the benefit of the persons covered thereby and may be enforced by such persons).
Parties in Interest
          Section 8.8 . The parties hereto agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event any provision of this Agreement was not performed in accordance with the terms hereof and that the parties shall be entitled to specific performance of the terms hereof, in addition to any other remedy at law or equity.
Specific Performance
          Section 8.9 . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts executed in and to be performed in that state. All actions and proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement shall be heard and determined in the Delaware Court of Chancery. Each of the Company, Parent and Merger Sub hereby irrevocably and unconditionally consents to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Delaware Court of Chancery for any litigation arising out of or relating to this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby (and agrees not to commence any litigation relating thereto except in such court), waives any objection to the laying of venue of any such litigation in the Delaware Court of Chancery and agrees not to plead or claim that such litigation brought therein has been brought in any inconvenient forum.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction and Venue
          Section 8.10 . The descriptive headings contained in this Agreement are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
          Section 8.11
Interpretation.
 
          Section 8.12 . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.


