FILE:APA/APA-8K-20100511133952.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Effective May 5, 2010, upon approval by the Stock Option Committee of the board of directors of Apache Corporation ("Apache"), Apache and each of Messrs. G. Steven Farris, Roger B. Plank, John A. Crum, and Rodney J. Eichler (each a "grantee") executed a first amendment (the "Amendment") to the 2010 Performance Program Award Agreement and the Award Notice, attached thereto as Schedule A and incorporated therein by reference (collectively, the "2010 Performance Award Grant Agreement"). The 2010 Performance Award Grant Agreement was dated January 15, 2010, and filed with Apache's Current Report on Form 8-K on January 19, 2010.
Pursuant to the 2010 Performance Award Grant Agreement, each grantee was issued a Conditional Grant (as defined in the 2010 Performance Award Grant Agreement) of restricted stock units, which Conditional Grant is to be multiplied by a factor that ranges from 0 to 2.5, depending on Apache's total shareholder return ("TSR") as compared to its peer companies (as listed in the 2010 Performance Award Grant Agreement) at the end of a three-year performance period. Pursuant to the Amendment the payout for each grantee is modified so that it is limited to 1.00 times the amount of the Conditional Grant if (i) the calculated TSR is negative and (ii) Apache's TSR calculated ranking among the peer companies results in an above 1.00 times payout. This description of the Amendment is a summary and is qualified in its entirety by the terms of the complete version of this document, which is attached to this 8-K as Exhibit 10.1, and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the annual meeting of stockholders of Apache held on Thursday, May 6, 2010, the matters voted upon and the number of votes cast for or against, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes as to such matters, were as stated below:
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
Recipient Name: [            ]
Grant Date: January 15, 2010
Grant: A Conditional Grant related to Restricted Stock Units
                    
, Apache Corporation has granted you a Conditional Grant of Restricted Stock Units under the 2010 Performance Program and the Apache Corporation 2007 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan pursuant to your 2010 Performance Program Award Notice and Agreement (the "Grant Agreement"); and
WHEREAS
, Apache and you desire to amend the Grant Agreement as provided herein;
WHEREAS
, in consideration of the premises set forth above and other good and valuable consideration, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Recipient and Apache hereby consent and agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
Executed this May 5, 2010, effective for all purposes as provided above.


