FILE:APA/APA-8K-20110428100449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2011, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2011. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR RELEASE AT 7:15 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
Houston, April 28, 2011  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) reported production of 732,000 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day and earnings of $1.1 billion, or $2.86 per diluted share, for the three-month period ending March 31, 2011. These compare with production of 586,000 boe per day and net income of $705 million, or $2.08 per diluted share, for the same period in the prior year.
     "Apache is beginning the year with a solid, strong performance," said G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer. "Despite a number of challenges, our diversified portfolio of assets delivered exceptional earnings and operating results. Liquids production increased 57,000 barrels to 358,000 barrels per day, which enabled Apache to achieve stand-out earnings and cash flow as a leading beneficiary of rising oil prices."
     Higher oil prices and production from new wells drilled during the quarter and assets acquired during 2010 combined to increase revenues to $3.9 billion, up from $2.7 billion last year. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* increased 43 percent from the prior year to $2.2 billion. Excluding certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results, Apache reported adjusted earnings* of $1.1 billion in first quarter 2011 compared with $712 million in the year-earlier period. On a per-share basis, adjusted earnings were $2.90 in the first quarter compared with $2.10 per diluted share in the prior-year period.
 
     Liquid hydrocarbons represented 49 percent of production and 77 percent of revenues. Approximately 60 percent of the company's oil production came from operations outside North America and received in excess of a $10 premium per barrel compared with domestic production benchmarked to West Texas Intermediate prices.
     "We continue to strengthen our land position, both in North America and internationally. Our LNG initiatives, Kitimat in Canada and Wheatstone in Australia, are steadily progressing toward project sanction with their respective joint venture partnerships," Farris said.
     "Apache's opportunity set has never been more robust. We have a deep backlog of exploitation opportunities across our portfolio. In addition to our legacy plays in core areas, we have other
 
potentially large-scale, long-life assets such as deepwater, LNG, and unconventional plays that can provide lasting, long-term value to our shareholders."
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina. From time to time, Apache posts announcements, operational updates and investor information, and copies of all press releases on its Web site, www.apachecorp.com.
     *Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities and adjusted earnings are non-GAAP measures. Please see reconciliations below. For supplemental and non-GAAP information, please go to .
http://www.apachecorp.com/financialinfo
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its first-quarter 2011 results at 1 p.m. Central time on Thursday, April 28. The call will be webcast from Apache's Web site, www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's Web site. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3 p.m. on April 28. To access the telephone playback, dial 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 for international calls and provide Apache's confirmation code, 21269081.
     
This news release contains certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the "safe harbor" provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 including, without limitation, expectations, beliefs, plans and objectives regarding production and exploration activities. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "seeks," "believes," "estimates," "expects," and similar references to future periods. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves, drilling risks, and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in our most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K/A, on our Web site and in our other public filings and press releases. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Unless legally required, Apache assumes no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
     
Effective January 1, 2010, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) now permits oil and gas companies, in their filings with the SEC, to disclose not only "proved" reserves, but also "probable" reserves as well as "possible" reserves. Statements of reserves are only estimates and
 
may not correspond to the ultimate quantities of oil and gas recovered. Any reserve estimates provided in this release that are not specifically designated as being estimates of proved reserves may include estimated reserves not necessarily calculated in accordance with, or contemplated by, the SEC's latest reserve reporting guidelines. Investors are urged to consider closely the disclosure in Apache's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, available from Apache at
www.apachecorp.com
or by writing Apache at: 2000 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77056 (Attn: Corporate Secretary).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results and are meaningful for the following reasons:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


