FILE:APA/APA-8K-20111103094920.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 3, 2011, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2011. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
:
CONTACTS
FOR RELEASE AT 7:15 A.M. CENTRAL TIME
HOUSTON, Nov. 3, 2011  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) reported production of 752,000 barrels of oil equivalent (boe) per day and earnings of $983 million, or $2.50 per diluted share, for the three-month period ending Sept. 30, 2011. These compare with production of 667,000 boe per day and net income of $765 million, or $2.12 per diluted share, for the same period in the prior year.
     Excluding certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results, Apache reported adjusted earnings* of $1.2 billion in third quarter 2011 compared with $797 million in the year-earlier period. On a per-share basis, adjusted earnings were $2.95 in the third quarter compared with $2.20 per diluted share in the prior-year period. Oil and gas revenues for third quarter 2011 were $4.3 billion, a 41 percent increase from $3.0 billion for the same period last year. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* were $2.7 billion, up 35 percent from the prior year's $2.0 billion.
     "Apache had a very productive quarter, both in operations and commercial activity," said G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer. "For the sixth consecutive quarter, we achieved record daily production on an equivalent basis. We've commenced development of the Balnaves oil field offshore Western Australia. We've extended the productive range of our holdings in Egypt's remote Western Desert with new producers in the Faghur Basin. We continue to drill from the extensive,
 
multiyear inventory of drillable locations we have developed in the Permian, Central, Gulf of Mexico and Canadian regions of North America. Domestically, the recent focus has obviously been on higher-margin oil and liquids-rich opportunities. This operational flexibility is a competitive advantage of Apache's portfolio model.
     "Apache made great progress commercially as well during the quarter. We announced the acquisition of ExxonMobil's Beryl and other selected fields in the U.K. sector of the North Sea, expanding our presence in this region. In Australia, the partner-operated Wheatstone Project advanced to development. This is Apache's first liquefied natural gas (LNG) project, and we expect it will enable us to monetize an estimated 2 trillion cubic feet of natural gas resource from the Brunello, Julimar, and Balnaves fields, which also are in development, at premium prices pegged to the worldwide market for LNG, creating additional value at those discoveries," Farris said.
     Liquid hydrocarbons represented 50 percent of production and 78 percent of revenues. Apache benefited from higher oil prices for both its international production indexed to Dated Brent benchmarks and sweet crudes from the Gulf of Mexico, which continue to receive a meaningful premium per barrel compared with production benchmarked to West Texas Intermediate prices.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina. From time to time, Apache posts announcements, operational updates and investor information, and copies of all press releases on its Web site, .
www.apachecorp.com
     *Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities and adjusted earnings are non-GAAP measures. Please see reconciliations below. For supplemental and non-GAAP information, please go to http://www.apachecorp.com/financialinfo.
 
     NOTE: Apache will conduct a conference call to discuss its third-quarter 2011 results at 1 p.m. Central time on Thursday, Nov. 3. The call will be webcast from Apache's website, www.apachecorp.com. The webcast replay and podcast will be archived on Apache's website. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3 p.m. on Nov. 3. To access the telephone playback, dial 800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291 for international calls and provide Apache's confirmation code, 21273208.
     
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "seeks," "believes," "estimates," "expects," and similar references to future periods. Any matters that are not historical facts are forward-looking and, accordingly, involve estimates, assumptions, risks and uncertainties. These risks include, but are not limited to the volatility of oil and natural gas prices, uncertainties inherent in estimating oil and natural gas reserves, drilling risks, risks related to development of the partner-operated Wheatstone LNG project, and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in Apache's 2010
Form 10-K
as amended by Amendment No. 1 to our annual report on
Form 10-K/A
, on our Web site and in our other public filings and press releases. There is no assurance that Apache's expectations will be realized, and actual results may differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements. Unless legally required, Apache assumes no duty to update these statements as of any future date.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES:
:
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results and are meaningful for the following reasons:
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.


