FILE:APA/APA-8K-20110511145607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On May 5, 2011, at the annual meeting of stockholders of Apache Corporation ("Apache"), the Company's stockholders voted to approve Apache's 2011 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "2011 Plan"). The 2011 Plan was adopted by Apache's Board of Directors (the "Board") on February 10, 2011. Apache has reserved 25,500,000 shares for issuance under the 2011 Plan. The Stock Option Plan Committee of Apache's Board is charged with the administration of the 2011 Plan. The foregoing description of the 2011 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2011 Plan, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
At the annual meeting of stockholders of Apache held on Thursday, May 5, 2011, there were 383,174,088 shares of Apache common stock, par value $0.625 per share, eligible to vote, of which 329,729,879 shares, or 86 percent, were voted. The matters voted upon and the number of votes cast for or against, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes as to such matters, were as stated below:
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 3.1
     
I, JEFFREY W. BULLOCK, SECRETARY OF STATE OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, DO HEREBY CERTIFY THE ATTACHED IS A TRUE AND CORRECT COPY OF THE CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT OF "APACHE CORPORATION", FILED IN THIS OFFICE ON THE FIFTH DAY OF MAY, A.D. 2011, AT 4:30 O'CLOCK P.M.
     
A FILED COPY OF THIS CERTIFICATE HAS BEEN FORWARDED TO THE NEW CASTLE COUNTY RECORDER OF DEEDS.
You may verify this certificate online at corp.delaware.gov/authver.shtml
 
a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware,
Apache Corporation,
DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
     That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of Apache Corporation held on February 9 and 10, 2011, a resolution was duly adopted proposing the amendment of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation set forth on Exhibit A hereto and declaring the amendment to be advisable.
FIRST:
     That at the annual meeting of the stockholders of Apache Corporation held on May 5, 2011, the necessary number of shares as required by statute were voted in favor of the amendment.
SECOND:
     That the amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provision of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
THIRD:
     That Article of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation is hereby amended as set forth on Exhibit A and that, except as set forth on Exhibit A, all other provisions of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation shall remain in full force and effect.
FOURTH:
FOURTH
     This amendment shall become effective upon filing.
FIFTH:
Apache Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by Thomas P. Chambers, its Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and attested by Cheri L. Peper, its Corporate Secretary, this 5th day of May 2011.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
The Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Apache Corporation shall be amended by amending the first paragraph of Article to read as follows:
FOURTH,
"The total number of shares of all classes of stock which this corporation shall have authority to issue is 870,000,000 which shall be divided into (a) 860,000,000 shares of common stock having a par value of $0.625 per share and (b) 10,000,000 shares of no par value preferred stock."

Exhibit 10.1
1.1 Apache Corporation, a Delaware corporation (hereinafter referred to, together with its Affiliates (as defined below) as the "Company" except where the context otherwise requires), hereby establishes the Apache Corporation 2011 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), as it may be amended and restated from time to time.
Establishment.
1.2 The purpose of the Plan is to provide Eligible Persons designated by the Committee for participation in the Plan with equity-based incentives to: (i) encourage such individuals to continue in the long-term service of the Company and its Affiliates, (ii) create in such individuals a more direct interest in the future success of the operations of the Company, (iii) attract outstanding individuals, and (iv) retain and motivate such individuals. The Plan is intended to provide eligible individuals with the opportunity to invest in the Company, thereby relating incentive compensation to increases in stockholder value and more closely aligning the compensation of such individuals with the interests of the Company's stockholders.
Purpose
.
Accordingly, this Plan provides for the granting of Incentive Stock Options, Non-Qualified Stock Options, Performance Awards, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Stock Appreciation Rights or any combination of the foregoing, as the Committee determines is best suited to the circumstances of the particular individual as provided herein.
1.3 The Effective Date of the Plan (the "Effective Date") is May 5, 2011. This Plan and each Award granted hereunder are conditioned on and shall be of no force or effect until the Plan is approved by the stockholders of the Company. The Committee (or its delegate in accordance with Section 3.4(b) hereof) may award grants, the entitlement to which shall be expressly subject to the condition that the Plan shall have been approved by the stockholders of the Company.
Effective Date
.
2.1 . The following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
 
 
 
 
The Participant must notify the Company of the existence of one or more adverse conditions specified in clauses (i) through (v) above within 90 days of the initial existence of the adverse condition. The notice must be provided in writing to Apache Corporation's Senior Vice President, Human Resources or his/her delegate. The notice may be provided by personal delivery or it may be sent by email, inter-office mail, regular mail (whether or not certified), fax, or any similar method. Apache Corporation's Senior Vice President, Human Resources or his/her delegate shall acknowledge receipt of the notice within 5 business days; the acknowledgement shall be sent to the Participant by certified mail. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, if the Company remedies the adverse condition within 30 days of being notified of the adverse condition, no Voluntary Termination with Cause shall occur.
2.2 The headings contained in the Plan are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of the Plan. Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the masculine gender shall also include the feminine gender, and the definition of any term herein in the singular shall also include the plural.
Headings; Gender and Number
.
3.1 The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. In accordance with the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, adopt rules and regulations for carrying out the purposes of the Plan, including, without limitation, the authority to:
Administration by the Committee.
 
3.2 . The Committee shall, in its absolute discretion, and without amendment to the Plan, have the power to accelerate, waive or modify, at any time, any term or condition of an Award that is not mandatory under this Plan; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have any discretion to accelerate, waive or modify any term or condition of an Award that is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code if such discretion would cause the Award to not so qualify. In the event of a Change of Control, the provisions of Section 12 hereof shall be mandatory and shall govern the vesting and exercisability schedule of any Award granted hereunder.
Committee Discretion
3.3 . No member of the Committee shall be liable for any action, omission, or determination made in good faith. The Company shall indemnify (to the extent permitted under Delaware law) and hold harmless each member of the Committee and each other director or employee of the Company to whom any duty or power relating to the administration or interpretation of the Plan has been delegated against any cost or expense (including counsel fees) or liability (including any sum paid in settlement of a claim with the approval of the Committee) arising out of any action, omission or determination relating to the Plan, unless, in either case, such action, omission or determination was taken or made by such member, director or employee in bad faith and without reasonable belief that it was in the best interests of the Company. The determination, interpretations and other actions of the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be binding and conclusive for all purposes and on all persons.
Indemnification
3.4
Committee Delegation
.
 
3.5 Except as expressly otherwise stated in any resolution of the Committee, the Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) or any successor section(s) of the Internal Revenue Code ("Section 162(m)") as to any "covered employee" as defined in Section 162(m), and shall be administered, interpreted, and construed consistently therewith. The Committee is authorized to take such additional action, if any, that may be required to ensure that the Plan and any Award under the Plan satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m), taking into account any regulations or other guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service.
Compliance with Section 162(m).
4.1 . Subject to adjustments pursuant to Section 4.4 hereof, up to 25,500,000 shares of Stock are authorized for issuance under the Plan in accordance with the Plan's terms and subject to such restrictions or other provisions as the Committee may from time to time deem necessary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of aggregate shares of Stock available for issuance under the Plan at any given time shall be reduced by (i) 1.0 share for each share of Stock granted in the form of Stock Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, or (ii) 2.39 shares for each share of Stock granted in the form of any Award that is not a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right. During the duration of the Plan, no Eligible Person may be granted Options which in the aggregate cover in excess of 10 percent of the total shares of Stock authorized under the Plan. No Award may be granted under the Plan on or after the 10-year anniversary of the Effective Date. The foregoing to the contrary notwithstanding, within the aggregate limit described in the first sentence of this Section 4.1, up to 25,500,000 shares of Stock may be issued pursuant to ISOs granted under the Plan.
Number of Shares
4.2 If shares of Stock which may be issued pursuant to the terms of the Plan awarded hereunder are forfeited, cancelled, exchanged or surrendered or if an Award otherwise terminates or expires without a distribution of shares to the holder of such Award, the shares of Stock with respect to such Award shall, to the extent of any such forfeiture, cancellation, exchange, surrender, termination or expiration, again be available for Awards under the Plan; provided, however, that in such case, the number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall increase by 1.0 share for each share related to a Stock Option or a Stock Appreciation Right that is so forfeited, cancelled, exchanged or surrendered or expired and by 2.39 shares for each such share which is not related to a Stock Option or a Stock Appreciation Right. The number of shares available shall not be increased by shares tendered, surrendered or withheld in connection with the exercise or settlement of an Award or the related tax withholding obligations. Furthermore, when a
.
Availability of Shares Not Issued under Awards
 
SAR is settled in shares, the number of shares subject to the SAR under the SAR Award agreement will be counted against the aggregate number of shares with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan as one share for every share subject to the SAR, regardless of the number of shares used to settle the SAR upon exercise.
4.3 The Company shall at all times during the term of the Plan retain as authorized and unissued Stock and/or Stock in the Company's treasury, at least the number of shares from time to time require under the provisions of the Plan, or otherwise assure itself of its ability to perform its obligations hereunder.
Stock Offered
.
4.4 If the Company shall at any time increase or decrease the number of its outstanding shares of Stock or change in any way the rights and privileges of such shares by means of the payment of a Stock dividend or any other distribution upon such shares payable in Stock or rights to acquire Stock, or through a Stock split, reverse Stock split, subdivision, consolidation, combination, reclassification or recapitalization involving the Stock (any of the foregoing being herein called a "capital restructuring"), then in relation to the Stock that is affected by one or more of the above events, the numbers, rights, and privileges of the following shall be, in each case, equitably and proportionally adjusted to take into account the occurrence of any of the above events, (i) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other property (including cash) that may thereafter be issued pursuant to subsections 4.1 and 4.10, (ii) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other property (including cash) issued or issuable in respect of outstanding Awards; and (iii) the exercise price, grant price, or purchase price relating to any Award; provided that, with respect to Incentive Stock Options, such adjustment shall be made in accordance with Section 424(h) of the Internal Revenue Code; (iv) the Performance Goals, and (v) the individual limitations applicable to Awards.
Adjustments for Stock Split, Stock Dividend, Etc
.
4.5 In the event there shall be any change, other than as specified in subsections 4.4 hereof, in the number or kind of outstanding shares of Stock or of any stock or other securities into which the Stock shall be changed or for which it shall have been exchanged, and if the Committee shall in its discretion determine that such change equitably requires an adjustment in the number or kind of shares subject to outstanding Awards or which have been reserved for issuance pursuant to the Plan but are not then subject to an Award, then such adjustments shall be made by the Committee and shall be effective for all purposes of the Plan and on each outstanding Award that involves the particular type of stock for which a change was effected.
Other Changes in Stock
.
4.6 . If the Company shall at any time grant to the holders of its Stock rights to subscribe pro rata for additional shares thereof or for any other securities of the Company or of any other corporation, there shall be reserved with respect to the shares then under an outstanding Award to any Participant of the particular class of Stock involved the Stock or other securities which the Participant would have been entitled to subscribe for if immediately prior to such grant the Participant had exercised his entire Option. If, upon exercise of any such Option, the Participant subscribes for the additional shares or other securities, the aggregate Option Price shall be increased by the amount of the price that is payable by the Participant for such additional shares or other securities as if the Participant had exercised his entire Option immediately prior to the grant of such additional shares or other securities.
Rights to Subscribe
4.7 . No adjustment or substitution provided for in this Section 4 shall require the Company to sell a fractional share of Stock under any Option, or otherwise issue a fractional share of Stock, and the total substitution or adjustment with respect to each Option shall be limited by deleting any fractional share. In the case of any such substitution or adjustment, the aggregate Option Price for the shares of Stock then subject to the Option shall remain unchanged but the Option Price per
General Adjustment Rules
 
share under each such Option shall be equitably adjusted by the Committee to reflect the greater or lesser number of shares of Stock or other securities into which the Stock subject to the Option may have been changed.
4.8 Adjustments under this Section 4 shall be made by the Committee, whose determinations with regard thereto shall be final and binding upon all parties.
Determination by the Committee, Etc
.
4.9 . For any Award that is not subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A before the adjustments identified in the preceding sections of this Section 4, no adjustment shall be made that would cause the Award to become subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. For an Award that is subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A before the adjustments identified in the preceding sections of this Section 4, no adjustment shall cause the Award to violate Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, without the prior written consent of both the Participant and the Committee.
Code Section 409A
4.10 . The following limits shall apply to grants of all Awards under the Plan:
Award Limits
To the extent required by Section 162(m) of the Code, shares subject to Options or SARs which are canceled shall continue to be counted against the limits set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) immediately preceding.
4.11 . If required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and/or by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, each Participant's Award shall be conditioned on repayment or forfeiture in accordance with applicable law and the related Award agreement shall reflect any such condition. In addition, the Committee may establish such conditions for repayment or forfeiture of Awards as the Committee may adopt by policy for the Company or any Affiliate.
Repayment/Forfeiture of Awards
 
5.1 Participants in the Plan shall be those Eligible Persons who, in the judgment of the Committee (or, pursuant to Section 3.4(b), the Chief Executive Officer of the Company), are performing, or during the term of their incentive arrangement will perform, vital services in the management, operation, and development of the Company or an Affiliate, and significantly contribute, or are expected to significantly contribute, to the achievement of the Company's long-term corporate economic objectives. Participants may be granted from time to time one or more Awards; provided, however, that the grant of each such Award shall be separately approved by the Committee or granted in accordance with Section 3.4(b) hereof, and receipt of one such Award shall not result in automatic receipt of any other Award. Upon determination that an Award is to be granted to a Participant, as soon as practicable, written notice shall be given to such person, specifying the terms, conditions, rights and duties related thereto. Each Participant shall, if required by the Committee, enter into an agreement with the Company, in such form as the Committee shall determine and which is consistent with the provisions of the Plan, specifying such terms, conditions, rights, and duties. Awards shall be deemed to be granted as of the date specified in the grant resolution of the Committee (or, in the case of grants made pursuant to Section 3.4(b), in accordance with the guidelines established by the Committee), which date shall be the date of any related agreement with the Participant. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan and any such agreement entered into hereunder, the provisions of the Plan shall govern.
Participation.
Awards granted to members of the Board shall be recommended to the full Board by the Management Development and Compensation Committee and approved by the full Board.
5.2 As soon as practicable after such determinations have been made, each Participant shall be notified of (a) his/her designation as a Participant, (b) the date of grant, (c) the number and type of Awards granted to the Participant, (d) in the case of Performance Awards, the Performance Period and Performance Goals, (e) in the case of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, the Restriction Period (as defined in subsection 8.1), and (f) any other terms or conditions imposed by the Committee with respect to the Award.
.
Notification to Participants and Delivery of Documents
5.3 . This requirement for delivery of a written Award agreement is satisfied by electronic delivery of such agreement provided that evidence of the Participant's receipt of such electronic delivery is available to the Company and such delivery is not prohibited by applicable laws and regulations.
Delivery of Award Agreement
6.1 . Coincident with or following designation for participation in the Plan, an Eligible Person may be granted one or more Options. Grants of Options under the Plan shall be made by the Committee or in accordance with Section 3.4(b). In no event shall the exercise of one Option
Grant of Stock Options
 
affect the right to exercise any other Option or affect the number of shares of Stock for which any other Option may be exercised, except as provided in subsection 6.2(j) hereof.
6.2 . Each Option granted under the Plan shall be identified as either an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option (or, if no such identification is made, then it shall be a Non-Qualified Stock Option) and evidenced by a written agreement which shall be entered into by the Company and the Participant to whom the Option is granted, and which shall contain the following terms and conditions set out in this subsection 6.2, as well as such other terms and conditions, not inconsistent therewith, as the Committee may consider appropriate.
Stock Option Agreements
To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of Stock of the Company with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by a Participant during any calendar year under the Plan and any other option plan of the Company (or any Affiliate) shall exceed $100,000, such Options shall be treated as Non-Qualified Stock Options. Such Fair Market Value shall be determined as of the date on which each such Incentive Stock Option is granted.
 
(g) .
Exercise, Payments, Etc
(i) Each Stock Option agreement shall provide that the method for exercising the Option granted therein shall be by delivery to the Office of the Secretary of the Company or to the Administrative Agent of written notice specifying the number of shares of Stock with respect to which such Option is exercised and payment to the Company of the aggregate Option Price. Such notice shall be in a form satisfactory to the Committee and shall specify the particular Options (or portions thereof) which are being exercised and the number of shares of Stock with respect to which the Options are being exercised. The Participant's obligation to deliver written notice of exercise is satisfied by electronic delivery of such notice through means satisfactory to the Committee and prescribed by the Company. The exercise of the Option shall be deemed effective on the date such notice is received by the Office of the Secretary or by the Administrative Agent and payment is made to the Company of the aggregate Option Price (the "Exercise Date"); however, if payment of the aggregate Option Price is made pursuant to a sale of shares of Stock as contemplated by subsection 6.2(g)(iv)(E) below, the Exercise Date shall be deemed to be the date of such sale. If requested by the Company, such notice shall contain the Participant's representation that he or she is purchasing the Stock for investment purposes only and his or her agreement not to sell any Stock so purchased in any manner that is in violation of the Exchange Act or any applicable state law, and such restriction, or notice thereof, shall be placed on the certificates representing the Stock so purchased. The purchase of such Stock shall take place upon delivery of such notice to the Office of the Secretary of the Company or to the Administrative Agent, at which time the aggregate Option Price shall be paid in full to the Company by any of the methods or any combination of the methods set forth in subsection 6.2(g)(iv) below.
(ii) The shares of Stock to which the Participant is entitled as a result of the exercise of the Option shall be issued by the Company and either (A) delivered by electronic means to an account designated by the Participant or (B) delivered to the Participant in the form of a properly executed certificate or certificates representing such shares of Stock. If shares of Stock are used to pay all or part of the aggregate Option Price, the Company shall issue and deliver to the Participant the additional shares of Stock, in excess of the aggregate Option Price or portion thereof paid using shares of Stock, to which the Participant is entitled as a result of the Option exercise.
(iii) The Company's obligation to deliver the shares of Stock to which the Participant is entitled as a result of the exercise of the Option shall be subject to the payment in full to the Company of the aggregate Option Price and the required tax withholding.
(iv) The aggregate Option Price shall be paid by any of the following methods or any combination of the following methods:
 
 
7.1 . The Committee (or, if so provided pursuant to Section 3.4(b), the Chief Executive Officer of the Company) is authorized to grant SARs to Participants either alone ("freestanding") or in tandem with other Awards, including Performance Awards, Options, and Restricted Stock. Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with any Award must be granted at the same time as the Award is granted. Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with Options shall terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the termination or exercise of the related Stock Options. Options granted in tandem with Stock Appreciation Rights shall terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the termination or exercise of the related Stock Appreciation Rights. The Committee shall establish the terms and conditions applicable to any Stock Appreciation Rights, which terms and conditions need not be uniform but may not be inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. Freestanding Stock Appreciation Rights shall generally be subject to terms and conditions substantially similar to those described in Section 4 and subsection 6.2 for Options, including, but not limited to, the requirements of subsections 6.2(b), (d), and (i) and subsection 4.7 regarding general adjustment rules, minimum price, duration, and prohibition on repricing.
Stock Appreciation Rights
7.2 . The SAR Price may be fixed on the date it is granted or the SAR Price may vary according to an objective formula specified by the Committee at the time of grant. However, the SAR Price can never be less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date of grant. The SAR grant must specify the number of shares to which it applies, which must be fixed at the date of grant (subject to adjustment pursuant to Sections 4, 6, and 11). Once granted, no SAR shall be modified, extended, or renewed in any way that would cause the SAR to be subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. The period during which the SAR may be exercised shall not be extended to any date that would cause the SAR to become subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. The value of the SAR shall not be adjusted to reflect any dividends declared and paid on the Stock between the date of grant and the date the SAR is exercised; however, the right to one or more dividends declared and paid on the Stock between the date of grant and the date the SAR is exercised may be set forth in a separate arrangement.
Section 409A Avoidance
8.1 . At the time an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units is made, the Committee shall establish the terms and conditions applicable to such Award, including the period of
Restriction Period
 
time (the "Restriction Period") and attainment of performance goals during which certain restrictions established by the Committee shall apply to the Award. Awards of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units may also be made in accordance with Section 3.4(b). Each such Award, and designated portions of the same Award, may have a different Restriction Period. Except as permitted or pursuant to Sections 12 and 13 hereof, the Restriction Period applicable to a particular Award shall not be changed. Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units may or may not be subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. If they are subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, the grant of the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units must contain the provisions needed to comply with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, including but not limited to (i) the timing of any election to defer receipt of the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units beyond the date of vesting, (ii) the timing of any payout election, and (iii) the timing of the settlement of Restricted Stock or a Restricted Stock Unit. Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that are subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A may be adjusted to reflect any dividends declared and paid on the Stock between the date of grant and the date the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit vests, but only to the extent permitted in IRS guidance of general applicability.
8.2 . Restricted Stock shall be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine. If certificates representing Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, the Committee may require that such certificates bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, that the Company retain physical possession of the certificates, and that the Participant deliver a stock power to the Company, endorsed in blank, relating to the Restricted Stock represented by a stock certificate registered in the name of the Participant.
Certificates for Stock
8.3 . Participants shall have the right to enjoy all shareholder rights during the Restriction Period except that:
Restricted Stock Terms and Conditions
8.4 . The Committee (or, if so provided pursuant to Section 3.4(b), the Chief Executive Officer of the Company) is authorized to grant Restricted Stock Units to Participants, which
Restricted Stock Units
 
are rights to receive Stock at the end of a specified deferral period, subject to the following terms and conditions:
Settlement of an Award of Restricted Stock Units shall occur upon expiration of the vesting period specified for such Restricted Stock Unit by the Committee (or, if permitted by the Committee, as elected by the Participant pursuant to Section 8.5). In addition, Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions (which may include a risk of forfeiture) as the Committee may impose, if any, which restrictions may lapse at the expiration of the vesting or deferral period, as the case may be, or at earlier specified times (including based on achievement of performance goals and/or future service requirements), separately or in combination, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may determine. Restricted Stock Units shall be satisfied by the delivery of cash or Stock in the amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the specified number of shares of Stock covered by the Restricted Stock Units, or a combination thereof, as determined by the Committee at the date of grant or thereafter.
Award and Restrictions.
8.5 With the consent of the Committee, a Participant who has been granted a Restricted Stock Unit may by compliance with the then applicable procedures under the Plan irrevocably elect in writing to defer receipt of all or any part of any distribution associated with that Restricted Stock Unit Award in accordance with either the terms and conditions of the Deferred Delivery Plan or the terms and conditions specified under the grant agreement and related documents. The terms and conditions of any such deferral, including, but not limited to, the period of time for, and form of, election; the manner and method of payout; and the use and form of Dividend Equivalents in respect of stock-based units resulting from such deferral, shall be as determined by the Committee. The Committee may, at any time and from time to time, but prospectively only except as hereinafter provided, amend, modify, change, suspend, or cancel any and all of the rights, procedures, mechanics, and timing parameters relating to such deferrals. In addition, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the pay out of such deferrals (and any earnings thereon), or any portion thereof, either in a lump sum or in a series of payments, but only to the extent that the payment or the change in timing of the payment will not cause a violation of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
.
Deferral of Receipt of Restricted Stock Units
8.6 . The Committee is authorized to grant Stock as a bonus, or to grant Stock or other Awards in lieu of obligations to pay cash or deliver other property under this Plan or under plans or compensatory arrangements, provided that, in the case of Participants subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act, the amount of such grants remains within the discretion of the Committee to the extent necessary to ensure that acquisitions of Stock or other Awards are exempt from liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Stock or Awards granted hereunder shall be subject to such other terms as shall be determined by the Committee. In the case of any grant of Stock to an officer of the Company or an Affiliate in lieu of salary or other cash compensation, the number of shares granted in place of such compensation shall be reasonable, as determined by the Committee.
Bonus Stock and Awards in Lieu of Obligations
8.7 . The Committee is authorized to grant Dividend Equivalents to a Participant, entitling the Participant to receive cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property equal in value to dividends paid with respect to a specified number of shares of Stock, or other periodic payments. Dividend Equivalents may be awarded on a free-standing basis or in connection with another Award. The Committee may provide that Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or distributed when accrued or shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Stock, Awards, or other investment vehicles, and subject to risk of forfeiture, as the Committee may specify. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Dividend Equivalents shall not be granted in connection with the grant of any Options or Stock Appreciation Right.
Dividend Equivalents
 
9.1 . Performance Goals applicable to a Performance Award shall be established by the Committee in its absolute discretion on or before the date of grant and within the time period prescribed by, and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of, Code Section 162(m)(4)(C), or any successor provision thereto, and the regulations thereunder, for performance-based compensation. Such Performance Goals may include or be based upon any of the following criteria, either in absolute amount, per share, or per barrel of oil equivalent (boe): pretax income or after tax income, operating profit, return on equity, capital or investment, earnings, book value, increase in cash flow return, sales or revenues, operating expenses (including, but not limited to, lease operating expenses, severance taxes and other production taxes, gathering and transportation, general and administrative costs, and other components of operating expenses), stock price appreciation, implementation or completion of critical projects or processes, production growth, reserve growth, and/or corporate acquisition goals based on value of assets acquired or similar objective measures.
Establishment of Performance Goals for Company
Where applicable, the Performance Goals may be expressed in terms of attaining a specified level of a particular criteria or attaining a percentage increase or decrease in a particular criteria, and may be applied relative to internal goals or levels attained in prior years or related to other companies or indices or as ratios expressing relationship between Performance Goals, or any combination thereof, as determined by the Committee.
The Performance Goals may include a threshold level of performance below which no vesting will occur, levels of performance at which specified vesting will occur, and a maximum level of performance at which full vesting will occur.
The Committee may in its discretion classify Participants into as many groups as it determines, and as to any Participant relate his/her Performance Goals partially, or entirely, to the measured performance, either absolutely or relatively, of an identified subsidiary, division, operating company, test strategy, or new venture of the Company and/or its Affiliates.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, payment or vesting of any Performance Award shall not be made until the applicable Performance Goals have been satisfied and any other material terms of such Award were in fact satisfied. The Committee shall certify in writing the attainment of each Performance Goal. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, with respect to any Performance Award, (a) the Committee may not adjust, downwards or upwards, any amount payable, or other benefits granted, issued, retained, and/or vested pursuant to such an Award on account of satisfaction of the applicable Performance Goals and (b) the Committee may not waive the achievement of the applicable Performance Goals, except in the case of the Participant's death or disability, or a Change of Control.
9.2 . At or about the same time that Performance Goals are established for a specific period, the Committee shall in its absolute discretion establish the percentage of the Performance Awards granted for such Performance Period which shall be earned by the Participant for various levels of performance measured in relation to achievement of Performance Goals for such Performance Period.
Levels of Performance Required to Earn Performance Awards
 
9.3 . The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions applicable to any Performance Award, which may include restrictions on the delivery of Stock payable in connection with the Performance Award and restrictions that could result in the future forfeiture of all or part of any Stock earned. The Committee may provide that shares of Stock issued in connection with a Performance Award be held in escrow and/or legended. Performance Awards may or may not be subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. If a Performance Award is subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, the Performance Award grant agreement shall contain the terms and conditions needed to comply with the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, including but not limited to (i) the timing of any election to defer receipt of the Performance Award, (ii) the timing of any payout election, and (iii) the timing of the actual payment of the Performance Award. Performance Awards that are subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A may be adjusted to reflect any dividends declared and paid on the Stock between the date of grant and the date the Performance Award is paid, but only to the extent permitted in IRS guidance of general applicability.
Other Restrictions
9.4 . Promptly after the Committee has established the Performance Goals with respect to a Performance Award, the Participant shall be provided with written notice of the Performance Goals so established.
Notification to Participants
9.5 The Committee shall, as soon as practicable after the close of a Performance Period, determine (a) the extent to which the Performance Goals for such Performance Period have been achieved and (b) the percentage of the Performance Awards earned as a result.
Measurement of Performance against Performance Goals
.
These determinations shall be absolute and final as to the facts and conclusions therein made and be binding on all parties. Promptly after the Committee has made the foregoing determination, each Participant who has earned Performance Awards shall be notified. For all purposes of this Plan, notice shall be deemed to have been given the date action is taken by the Committee making the determination. Participants may not sell, transfer, pledge, exchange, hypothecate, or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of their Performance Awards during the Performance Period.
9.6 Upon the Committee's determination that a percentage of any Performance Award has been earned for a Performance Period, Participants to whom such earned Performance Awards have been granted and who have been in the employ of the Company or Affiliates continuously from the date of grant until the end of the Performance Period, subject to the exceptions set forth in the Performance Award agreement and in Sections 10 and 12 hereof, shall be entitled, subject to the other conditions of this Plan, to payment in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Performance Awards. Performance Awards shall under no circumstances become earned or have any value whatsoever for any Participant who is not in the employ of the Company or its Affiliates continuously during the entire Performance Period for which such Performance Award was granted, except as provided in Sections 10 and 12.
Treatment of Performance Awards Earned
.
9.7 Following the grant of Performance Awards with respect to a Performance Period, additional Participants may be designated by the Committee for grant of Performance Awards for such Performance Period subject to the same terms and conditions set forth for the initial grants, except that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may reduce the value of the amounts to which subsequent Participants may become entitled, prorated according to reduced time spent during the Performance Period, and the applicable Performance Award agreement shall be modified to reflect such reduction.
Subsequent Performance Award Grants
.
 
9.8 . No Participant shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of Stock covered by a Performance Award until the Participant becomes the holder of record of such Stock.
Stockholder Privileges
10.1 . Except as provided herein, the treatment of an Award upon a termination of employment or any other service relationship by and between a Participant and the Company or an Affiliate shall be specified in the agreement controlling such Award. To the extent such Award is subject to Section 409A of the Code, such termination of employment or any other service relationship shall be a "separation from service" within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h) with respect to any Award intended to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code; provided, that a "separation from service" shall occur only if both the Company and the Participant expect the Participant's level of services to permanently drop by more than half.
Termination of Employment
10.2 . If the employment of the Participant by the Company is terminated for cause, as determined by the Committee, all Awards to such Participant shall thereafter be void for all purposes. As used in subsections 9.1, 10.2, and 10.3 hereof, "cause" shall mean a gross violation, as determined by the Committee, of the Company's established policies and procedures, provided that the effect of this subsection 10.2 shall be limited to determining the consequences of a termination and that nothing in this subsection 10.2 shall restrict or otherwise interfere with the Company's discretion with respect to the termination of any employee.
Termination for Cause
10.3 Except as set forth below, each Performance Award shall state that each such Award shall be subject to the condition that the Participant has remained an Eligible Person from the date of grant until the applicable vesting date as follows:
Performance Awards.
 
10.4 . Subject to Sections 12 and 14, in the event a Participant terminates employment during a Restriction Period for the Participant's Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, such Awards will be forfeited; provided, however, that the Committee may provide for proration or full payout in the event of (a) death, (b) permanent disability, or (c) any other circumstances the Committee may determine.
Forfeiture Provisions
11.1 . The Company and any Affiliate is authorized to withhold from any Award granted, or any payment relating to an Award under this Plan, including from a distribution of Stock, amounts of withholding and other taxes or social security payments due or potentially payable in connection with any transaction involving an Award, and to take such other action as the Committee may deem advisable to enable the Company and Participants to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax or social security obligations relating to any Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Stock or other property and to make cash payments in respect thereof, in satisfaction of a Participant's tax obligations, either on a mandatory or elective basis at the discretion of the Committee.
Withholding Requirement
11.2 . The Company's obligations to deliver shares of Stock upon the exercise of an Option or SAR shall be subject to the Participant's satisfaction of all applicable federal, state, and local income and other tax and social security withholding requirements.
Withholding Requirement  Stock Options and SARs
At the time the Committee grants an Option, it may, in its sole discretion, grant the Participant an election to pay all such amounts of required tax withholding, or any part thereof:
 
11.3 . If the Participant is an officer or director of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 or any successor section(s) of the Exchange Act ("Section 16"), the Participant must satisfy the requirements of Section 16 and any applicable rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the use of shares of Stock to satisfy such tax withholding obligation.
Section 16 Requirements
11.4 . Each Restricted Stock and Performance Award agreement shall provide that, upon payment of any entitlement under such an Award, the Participant shall make appropriate arrangements with the Company to provide for the amount of minimum tax and social security withholding required by law, including without limitation Sections 3102 and 3402 or any successor section(s) of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state and local income and other tax and social security laws. The withholding may be deducted from the Award. Any payment under such an Award shall be made in a proportion of cash and shares of Stock, determined by the Committee, such that the cash portion shall be sufficient to cover the withholding amount required by this Section. The cash portion of any payment shall be based on the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock on the applicable date of vesting to which such tax withholding relates. Such cash portion shall be withheld by the Company to satisfy applicable tax and social security withholding requirements.
Restricted Stock and Performance Award Payment and Tax Withholding
12.1 . In the event of the occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company:
In General
(a) Without further action by the Committee or the Board,
all outstanding Options shall fully vest upon the Participant's Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause occurring on or after a Change of Control. Such newly vested Options shall be fully exercisable as of the date of the Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause on or after a Change of Control occurs.
(b) Without further action by the Committee or the Board,
all unvested Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units shall fully vest upon the Participant's Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause occurring on or after a Change of Control. Such newly vested Restricted Stock Units shall be converted to Stock and the Participant shall be issued the requisite number of shares, after any withholding under Section 11, as soon as administratively practicable after the Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause on or after a Change of Control occurs, unless the Participant had elected to defer Restricted Stock Units to the Deferred Delivery Plan in which case the Participant's account in the Deferred Delivery Plan shall
 
be credited with deferred Restricted Stock Units as of the date of the Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause on or after the Change of Control occurs.
In the event that the Company is merged or consolidated with another corporation and the Company is not the surviving corporation, or if all or substantially all of the assets or more than 20 percent of the outstanding voting stock of the Company is acquired by any other corporation, business entity or person, or in case of a reorganization (other than a reorganization under the United States Bankruptcy Code) or liquidation of the Company, then the Committee, or the board of directors of any corporation assuming the obligations of the Company, shall, as to the Plan and outstanding Awards make appropriate provision for the adoption and continuation of the Plan by the acquiring or successor corporation and for the protection of any holders of such outstanding Awards by the substitution on an equitable basis of appropriate stock of the Company or of the merged, consolidated, or otherwise reorganized corporation which will be issuable with respect to the Stock. Additionally, upon the occurrence of such an event and provided that a Performance Goal has occurred, upon written notice to the Participants, the Committee may accelerate the vesting and payment dates of the entitlement to receive cash and Stock under
 
outstanding Awards so that all such existing entitlements are paid prior to any such event. If a Performance Goal has not yet been attained, the Committee in its discretion may make equitable payment or adjustment.
In its discretion, and on such terms and conditions as it deems appropriate, the Committee may provide, either by the terms of an agreement applicable to any Award or by resolution adopted prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control or an event described in this Section 13, that any outstanding Award (or portion thereof) shall be converted into a right to receive cash, on or as soon as practicable following the closing date or expiration date of the transaction resulting in the Change of Control or such event in an amount equal to the highest value of the consideration to be received in connection with such transaction for one share of Stock, or, if higher, the highest Fair Market Value of a share of Stock during the thirty (30) consecutive business days immediately prior to the closing date or expiration date of such transaction, less the per-share Option Price or grant price of SARs, as applicable to the Award, multiplied by the number of shares subject to such Award, or the applicable portion thereof.
14.1 . Neither anything contained in the Plan or any agreement nor the granting of any Award under the Plan shall confer upon any Participant any right with respect to the continuation of his or her employment by the Company or any Affiliate, or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Affiliate, at any time, to terminate such employment or to increase or decrease the level of the Participant's compensation from the level in existence at the time of the Award.
Employment
An Eligible Person who has been granted an Award in one year shall not necessarily be entitled to be granted Awards in subsequent years.
14.2 . Except as otherwise determined at any time by the Committee as to any Awards other than ISOs, no right or interest of any Participant in an Award granted pursuant to the Plan shall be assignable or transferable during the lifetime of the Participant, either voluntarily or involuntarily, or subjected to any lien, directly or indirectly, by operation of law, or otherwise, including execution, levy, garnishment, attachment, pledge, bankruptcy, or court order; that the Committee may permit further transferability of Awards other than ISOs, on a general or a specific basis, and may impose conditions and limitations on any permitted transferability, subject to any applicable Restriction Period; , , that no Award may be transferred for value or other consideration without first obtaining approval thereof by the stockholders of the Company. In the event of a Participant's death, a Participant's rights and interests in any Award as set forth in an Award agreement, shall be transferable by testamentary will or the laws of descent and distribution, or, with respect to Awards other than Incentive Stock Options, a beneficiary designation that is in a form approved by the Committee and in compliance with the provisions of this Plan, applicable law, and the applicable Award agreement, and payment of any entitlements due under the Plan shall be made to the Participant's designated beneficiary, legal representatives, heirs, or legatees, as applicable. If in the opinion of the Committee a person entitled to payments or to exercise rights with respect to the Plan is disabled from caring for his or her affairs because of mental condition, physical condition, or age, payment due such person may be made to, and such rights shall be exercised by, such person's guardian, conservator, or other legal personal representative upon furnishing the Committee with evidence satisfactory to the Committee of such status. If any individual entitled to payment or to exercise rights
Non-transferability
provided
provided
further
however
 
with respect to the Plan is a minor, the Committee shall cause the payment to be made to (or the right to be exercised by) the custodian or representative who, under the state law of the minor's domicile, is authorized to act on behalf of the minor or is authorized to receive funds on behalf of the minor. With respect to those Awards, if any, that are permitted to be transferred to another individual, references in the Plan to exercise or payment related to such Awards by or to the Participant shall be deemed to include, as determined by the Committee, the Participant's permitted transferee. A Participant's unexercised Option or SAR, or amounts due but remaining unpaid to such Participant, at the Participant's death, shall be exercised or paid as designated by the Participant by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or, with respect to any unexercised Option or SAR other than an Incentive Stock Option, in accordance with the Participant's beneficiary designation in a form approved by the Committee and in compliance with the provisions of this Plan, applicable law and the applicable Award agreement. In the event any Award is exercised by or otherwise paid to the executors, administrators, heirs or distributees of the estate of a deceased Participant, or the transferee or designated beneficiary of an Award, in any such case, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the applicable Award agreement and in accordance with such terms and conditions as may be specified from time to time by the Committee, the Company shall be under no obligation to issue shares of Stock thereunder unless and until the Company is satisfied, as determined in the discretion of the Committee, that the person or persons exercising such Award, or to receive such payment, are the duly appointed legal representative of the deceased Participant's estate or the proper legatees or distributees thereof, or the valid transferee or designated beneficiary of such Award, as applicable. Any purported assignment, transfer or encumbrance of an Award that does not comply with this Section 14.2 shall be void and unenforceable against the Company.
14.3 . If an Award is subject to the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, to the extent that the Company or an Affiliate takes any action that causes a violation of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A or fails to take reasonable actions required to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, in each case as determined by the Committee, the Company shall pay an additional amount to the Participant (or beneficiary) equal to the additional income tax imposed pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A on the Participant as a result of such violation, plus any taxes imposed on this additional payment.
Noncompliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A
The amount of any income deemed to be received by a Participant as a result of the payment under an Award or exercise shall not constitute "earnings" or "compensation" with respect to which any other employee benefits of such Participant are determined, including without limitation benefits under any pension, profit sharing, life insurance, or salary continuation plan.
The Committee or the Board may at any time terminate, and from time to time may amend or modify the Plan, and the Committee or the Board may, to the extent permitted by the Plan, from time to time amend or modify the terms of any Award theretofore granted, including any Award agreement, in each case,
 
retroactively or prospectively; , , that no amendment or modification of the Plan may become effective without approval of the amendment or modification by the Company's stockholders if stockholder approval is required to enable the Plan to satisfy an applicable statutory or regulatory requirements, unless the Company, on the advice of outside counsel, determines that stockholder approval is not necessary.
provided
however
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, no amendment, modification, or termination of the Plan or any Award shall adversely affect the previously accrued material rights or benefits of a Participant under any outstanding Award theretofore awarded under the Plan, without the consent of such Participant holding such Award, except to the extent necessary to avoid a violation of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A or the Board or the Committee determines, on advice of outside counsel or the Company's independent accountants, that such amendment or modification is required for the Company, the Plan, or the Award to satisfy, comply with, or meet the requirements of any law, regulation, listing rule, or accounting standard applicable to the Company.
The Committee shall have the authority to adopt (without the necessity for further stockholder approval) such modifications, procedures, and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with the provisions of the laws (including, but not limited to, tax laws and regulations) of countries other than the United States in which the Company may operate, so as to assure the viability of the benefits of the Plan to Participants employed in such countries.
17.1 . The issuance of Stock and the payment of cash pursuant to the Plan shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations, including applicable federal and state securities laws. The Company may require a Participant, as a condition of receiving payment under an Award, to give written assurances in substance and form satisfactory to the Company and its counsel to such effect as the Company deems necessary or appropriate in order to comply with federal and applicable state securities laws.
Requirements of Law
17.2 . It is intended that this Plan shall comply with the provisions of, or an exemption from, Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the Treasury regulations relating thereto. Awards are intended to be exempt from Internal Revenue Code Section 409A to the extent possible. Any Award or payment that qualifies for an exemption shall be considered as the first payment(s) made under the Plan. For purposes of the limitations on nonqualified deferred compensation under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, each payment of compensation under this Plan shall be treated as a separate payment of compensation for purposes of applying the deferral election rules and the exemption for certain short-term deferral amounts under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. In no event may the Participant, directly or indirectly, designate the calendar year of any payment subject to Internal Revenue Code Section 409A under this Plan.
Section 409A of the Code
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, to the extent that the right to any payment (including the provision of benefits) hereunder provides for the "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A(d)(1), the payment shall be paid (or provided) in accordance with the following: If the Participant is a "Specified Employee" within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) on the date of the
.
Six-month Delay for Specified Participants
 
Participant's Separation from Service (the ""), and if an exemption from the six (6) month delay requirement of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) is not available, then no such payment shall be made or commence during the period beginning on the Separation Date and ending on the date that is six months following the Separation Date or, if earlier, on the date of the Participant's death. The amount of any payment that would otherwise be paid to the Participant during this period shall instead be paid to the Participant on the first day of the first calendar month following the end of the period.
Separation Date
Unless a payment is exempt from Internal Revenue Code Section 409A, the date of payment may not be accelerated and any payment made pursuant to the termination and liquidation of the Plan shall not be accelerated except in compliance with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A generally and Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix) specifically.
.
Prohibition on Acceleration
17.3 . If a Participant is an officer or director of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act, Awards granted hereunder shall be subject to all conditions required under Rule 16b-3, or any successor rule(s) promulgated under the Exchange Act, to qualify the Award for any exemption from the provisions of Section 16 available under such Rule. Such conditions are hereby incorporated herein by reference and shall be set forth in the agreement with the Participant, which describes the Award.
Section 16 Requirements
17.4 . The Plan and all agreements hereunder shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Texas.
Governing Law
The Plan shall terminate on the ten year anniversary of the Effective Date. No grants shall be awarded after such termination; however, the terms of the Plan shall continue to apply to all Awards outstanding when the Plan terminates.
Dated: February 10, 2011; Effective May 5, 2011.


