FILE:APA/APA-8K-20110225165039.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On February 21, 2011, Mr. John A. Crum informed Apache Corporation (the "Company") of his intention to resign as co-chief operating officer and president  North America effective as of March 7, 2011.
Following Mr. Crum's resignation, on February 22, 2011, the board of directors of the Company named Rodney J. Eichler as the Company's president and chief operating officer and Roger B. Plank to president and chief corporate officer. Mr. Eichler formerly served as the co-chief operating officer and president  International. In his new role as president and sole chief operating officer, Mr. Eichler will be responsible for Apache's 10 operating regions, worldwide drilling, gas monetization and worldwide projects. Mr. Plank, who currently serves as the Company's president, is assuming responsibilities for marketing and corporate purchasing, in addition to his leadership role in finance, administration and business development.
A copy of the press release is furnished as an exhibit.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
INDEX TO EXHIBITS

Exhibit 99.1
     HOUSTON, Feb. 25, 2011  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) today announced the appointments of Rod Eichler to president and chief operating officer, and Roger Plank to president and chief corporate officer. John Crum, who served as co-chief operating officer and president  North America, is leaving the company to become chief executive officer of Midstates Petroleum, a privately held exploration and production company.
     In his new role as president and sole chief operating officer, Eichler will be responsible for Apache's 10 operating regions, worldwide drilling, gas monetization and worldwide projects. Roger Plank is assuming responsibilities for marketing and corporate purchasing, in addition to his management role in finance, administration and business development.
     "I will continue to rely on Rod and Roger for their counsel in the Office of the Chief Executive Officer; they have joint and equal roles in the daily decision-making of the company. I am also confident that Apache has a deep bench  strong young leaders who are stepping up to move the company forward. We wish John well in his new endeavor," said G. Steven Farris, Apache's chairman and chief executive officer.
     Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina. Apache posts announcements, updates, investor information and all recent press releases, on its website, www.apachecorp.com.


