FILE:APA/APA-8K-20120607144241.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 4, 2012, Apache Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Apache"), and two of its subsidiaries established a five-year, revolving global credit facility with a syndicate of banks providing for aggregate commitments of US$2.3 billion, with rights to increase commitments up to an aggregate US$3.1 billion. Proceeds of borrowings may be used for general corporate purposes.
The facility was established pursuant to three agreements with the lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Global Administrative Agent, and the other agents party thereto, one with each of (i) Apache, providing for aggregate commitments of US$1.7 billion (including a $500 million letter of credit subfacility), with rights to increase commitments up to an aggregate US$2.2 billion (the "US Facility"), (ii) Apache Canada Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada ("ACL"), providing for aggregate commitments of US$300 million, with rights to increase aggregate commitments up to US$450 million (the "Canadian Facility"), and (iii) Apache Energy Limited, a company incorporated in Australia and registered in the State of Western Australia, Australia ("AEL"), providing for aggregate commitments of US$300 million, with rights to increase commitments up to an aggregate US$450 million (the "Australian Facility" and together with the US Facility and the Canadian Facility, the "Facilities"). Each of Apache, ACL and AEL may increase the aggregate commitments under their respective Facilities by adding additional lenders or by allowing one or more existing lenders to increase their respective commitments by up to $500 million under the US Facility and $150 million under each of the Canadian Facility and Australian Facility. The aggregate amount at any time outstanding under the Facilities may not exceed the total commitments thereunder at that time, which in no event can exceed an aggregate US$3.1 billion.
Borrowers may include Apache and certain subsidiaries domiciled in the United States under the US Facility, ACL and certain subsidiaries domiciled in Canada under the Canadian Facility, and AEL and certain subsidiaries domiciled in Australia under the Australian Facility (each a "Borrower"). Each Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow loans, and Apache may obtain letters of credit for the account of itself or its subsidiaries, in each case subject to representations and warranties, covenants and events of default that are substantially similar to those in Apache's existing 2011 revolving credit facility. Apache is liable for all obligations under the US Facility and has guaranteed all obligations under the Canadian Facility and Australian Facility. A default under any of the Facilities is a default under all of the Facilities.
All amounts outstanding under each of the Facilities is due June 4, 2017, provided that Borrower and Apache twice may request that the maturity date be extended for successive one-year periods expiring one year from the then scheduled maturity date. No lender is obligated to consent to any extension; however, Borrower may elect to repay loans from any non-consenting lender and terminate its loan commitment, or replace any non-consenting lender, and in either case, proceed with the requested extension with respect to the remaining balance of the loan commitments, provided that lenders having at least 51% of the aggregate total loan commitments have agreed to the requested extension.
All borrowings under the US Facility and Canadian Facility bear interest at one of the following two rate options, as selected by Borrower:
 
The US Facility also provides Apache a competitive advance option on an uncommitted competitive advance basis. All borrowings under the Australian Facility bear interest at LIBOR plus the Eurodollar Margin.
Each of the Facilities also requires Borrower to pay a facility fee equal to a per annum rate that varies from 0.06% to 0.20% of the full amount of the commitments based on Apache's Long-Term Debt Rating. The U.S. Facility imposes a participation fee equal to the then effective Eurodollar Margin on the face amount of each letter of credit plus fronting and other fees negotiated with its issuer.
Currently, the Base Rate Margin is 0.0%, the Eurodollar Margin is 0.90% and the facility fee is 0.10%.
The foregoing summary of the Facilities does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the agreement for each of the Facilities (each a "Facility Agreement"), copies of which are filed as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Each Facility Agreement has been filed with this report to provide investors and security holders with information regarding its terms. It is not intended to provide any other factual information about Apache or any other Borrower. Representations, warranties and covenants in each Facility Agreement were made only for purposes of the Facility Agreement, were solely for the benefit of the parties to the Facility Agreement, and may be subject to limitations agreed upon by the contracting parties, including being qualified by confidential disclosures exchanged between the parties in connection with the execution of the Facility Agreement. Representations and warranties in each Facility Agreement may have been made as of specific dates and for purposes of allocating contractual risk between the parties instead of establishing matters as facts, and may be subject to standards of materiality applicable to the contracting parties that differ from those applicable to investors. Investors are not third-party beneficiaries under any Facility Agreement and should not rely on the representations, warranties and covenants or any descriptions thereof as characterizations of the actual state of facts or condition of Apache or any
of its subsidiaries or affiliates. Moreover, information concerning the subject matter of the representations and warranties may change after the date of a Facility Agreement, which subsequent information may or may not be fully reflected in Apache's public disclosures.
Upon effectiveness of the Facility Agreements on June 4, 2012, (i) Apache elected to terminate the aggregate $1.95 billion of commitments under the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2005, as amended, among Apache and the lenders and agents party thereto, and the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 9, 2006, as amended, among Apache and the lenders and agents party thereto, (ii) ACL elected to terminate the $150 million of commitments under the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2005, as amended, among ACL and the lenders and agents party thereto, and (iii) AEL elected to terminate the $200 million of commitments under the Credit Agreement, dated as of May 12, 2005, as amended, among AEL and the lenders and agents party thereto.
 
The information required by this item is included in Item 1.01 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS:
 
 
Exhibit 10.1
THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of June 4, 2012, is among , a Delaware corporation ("" and, together with each other Person that becomes an Additional Borrower pursuant to , the ""), the (as defined below) party hereto, , as Global Administrative Agent, and, as Global Syndication Agents, and and , as Global Documentation Agents.
APACHE CORPORATION
Apache
Section 2.22
Borrower
LENDERS
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
CITIBANK, N.A.
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
ROYAL BANK OF CANADA
Borrower, Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, and the other Agents party hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" is defined in .
Accepting Lenders
Section 2.7(c)
"" means any Person which is a Borrower under this Agreement pursuant to .
Additional Borrower
Section 2.22
"" is defined in .
Additional Borrower Counterpart
Section 2.22(a)(v)
"" is defined in .
Additional Borrower Termination Notice
Section 2.22(c)
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Global Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" is defined in .
Affected Loan
Section 2.18(f)
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means each of the Global Administrative Agent, the Global Syndication Agents and the Global Documentation Agents.
Agents
"" is defined in .
Agreed Currency
Section 2.20(a)
"" means this Credit Agreement, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Agreement
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1%, and (c) the LIBO Rate in effect on such day for a one-month interest period plus 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively. If for any reason the Global Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive and binding, absent manifest error) that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the LIBO Rate for any reason, including, without limitation, the inability or failure of the Global Administrative Agent to obtain sufficient bids or publications in accordance with the terms hereof, the Alternate Base Rate shall be the Prime Rate until the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the LIBO Rate can be so determined.
"" is defined in the preamble.
Apache
"" means Apache Canada Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada.
Apache Canada
"" means Apache Energy Limited (ACN 009 301 964), a company incorporated in Australia and registered in the State of Western Australia, Australia.
Apache Energy Limited
"" means, for each Lender and for each Type of Loan, such office of such Lender (or of an Affiliate of such Lender) as such Lender may from time to time specify in writing to the Global Administrative Agent and Borrower as the office by which its Loans of such Type are to be made and/or issued and maintained.
Applicable Lending Office
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means (a) at any time the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P, and Fitch for the Index Debt are equivalent ratings, the level set forth in the chart below under the heading "" (a "") opposite the ratings under the headings "" and "", and (b) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P and Fitch for the Index Debt shall fall within different Levels, the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the highest two ratings, unless the highest two ratings shall fall within different Levels in which case the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the lower of the highest two ratings, , , that for purposes of the foregoing, (i) "" means a rating equal to or more favorable than; "" means a rating equal to or less favorable than; ">" means a rating greater than; "<" means a rating less than; (ii) if Moody's, S&P, or Fitch shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the penultimate sentence
Applicable Rating Level
Applicable Rating Level
Level
Moody's
S&P/Fitch
provided
however
 
appearing before the table below), then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the higher of the two existing ratings; (iii) if only one of Moody's, S&P, and Fitch shall have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the penultimate sentence of this definition), then the Applicable Rating Level shall be the rating that is one Level below the rating established by such party; (iv) if there is no rating for the Index Debt from Moody's, S&P, and Fitch, then the Applicable Rating Level shall equal Level V; and (v) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P and Fitch for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rating Level shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch shall change, or if any such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rating Level shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation. Changes in the Applicable Rating Level will occur automatically without prior notice.
 
For example, if the Moody's rating is A3, the S&P rating is BBB+, and the Fitch rating is A, Level III shall apply.
"" is defined in .
Arrangers
Article IX
"" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Global Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Acceptance
Section 10.4
Exhibit C
"" means Citisecurities Limited (ABN 51 008 489 610) in its capacity as Australian administrative agent for the lenders party to the Australian Credit Agreement and any successor thereto.
Australian Administrative Agent
"" means Apache Energy Limited and each other Person that becomes a borrower under the Australian Credit Agreement.
Australian Borrower
 
"" means that certain Syndicated Facility Agreement of even date herewith among the Australian Borrower, the Australian Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent, and the other agents party thereto, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Australian Credit Agreement
"" means the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of the Australian Credit Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Australian Lenders
"" means the Australian Credit Agreement, any notes, any guaranties, any assignment agreements, and the agreement with respect to fees, together with all exhibits, schedules and attachments thereto, and all other agreements, documents, certificates, financing statements and instruments from time to time executed and delivered pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing.
Australian Loan Documents
"" means, with respect to Apache, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the President and Chief Corporate Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Senior Vice PresidentTreasury and Administration of Apache, and any officer or employee of Apache specified as such to the Global Administrative Agent in writing by any of the aforementioned officers of Apache, and with respect to any Additional Borrower, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and Chief Corporate Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of such Additional Borrower, and any officer or employee of such Additional Borrower specified as such to the Global Administrative Agent in writing by any of the aforementioned officers of such Additional Borrower.
Authorized Officer
"" means the period from and including the Global Effective Date to but excluding the Maturity Date.
Availability Period
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Global Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or consented to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, , , that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within the United States or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
provided
provided
further
"" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "", in either case, based upon the Applicable Rating Level, applicable on such date:
Base Rate Margin
Base Rate Margin
 
Each change in the Base Rate Margin shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. Changes in the Base Rate Margin will occur automatically without prior notice.
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means Apache Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and each other Person that becomes an Additional Borrower pursuant to .
Borrower
Section 2.22
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Competitive Loan or group of Competitive Loans of the same Type made on the same date and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
"" means a request by Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with , in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent.
Borrowing Request
Section 2.3
Exhibit D
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
"" means Royal Bank of Canada in its capacity as Canadian administrative agent for the lenders party to the Canadian Credit Agreement and any successor thereto.
Canadian Administrative Agent
"" means Apache Canada and each other Person that becomes a borrower under the Canadian Credit Agreement.
Canadian Borrower
"" means that certain Credit Agreement of even date herewith among the Canadian Borrower, the Canadian Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent, and the other agents party thereto, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Canadian Credit Agreement
 
"" means the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of the Canadian Credit Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Canadian Lenders
"" means the Canadian Credit Agreement, any notes, any guaranties, any assignment agreements, and the agreement with respect to fees, together with all exhibits, schedules and attachments thereto, and all other agreements, documents, certificates, financing statements and instruments from time to time executed and delivered pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing.
Canadian Loan Documents
"" means the consolidated shareholder's equity of Borrower and its Subsidiaries plus the consolidated Debt of Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Capital
"" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C.  9601, et. seq., as amended from time to time.
CERCLA
"" means a certificate of Borrower, executed by an Authorized Officer and delivered to the Global Administrative Agent, in a form acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent, which requests an extension of the then scheduled Maturity Date pursuant to .
Certificate of Extension
Section 2.7
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption of any law, rule, regulation or treaty by any Governmental Authority, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) compliance by any Lender or any Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of , by any Applicable Lending Office of such Lender or by such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement; provided that, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (i) the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and all rules, guidelines or directives thereunder or issued in connection therewith and (ii) all rules, guidelines or directives concerning capital adequacy or liquidity promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or the United States or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "Change in Law" to the extent enacted, adopted, promulgated or issued by any Governmental Authority or otherwise having the force of law, regardless of the date so enacted, adopted, promulgated or issued.
Change in Law
Section 2.17(b)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
CI Lender
Section 2.23(a)
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Competitive Loans.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means the commitment of each Combined Lender under the Combined Credit Agreements, as such commitment may be reduced, increased or terminated from time to time pursuant to the Combined Loan Documents and, if any such commitments are no longer in effect under any Combined Credit Agreement, the aggregate unpaid principal
Combined Commitments
 
amount of the outstanding loans for which the applicable commitment is no longer in effect under such Combined Credit Agreement. The initial amount of each Combined Lender's Commitment is set forth on to the applicable Combined Credit Agreement, or in a Assignment and Acceptance (as defined in this Agreement and the Canadian Credit Agreement) or in a Substitution Certificate (as defined in the Australian Credit Agreement) pursuant to which such Combined Lender shall have assumed its Combined Commitment, as applicable, or in an applicable Notice of Commitment Increase. The initial aggregate amount of the Combined Lenders' Combined Commitments is $2,300,000,000.
Schedule 2.1
"" means this Agreement, the Australian Credit Agreement and the Canadian Credit Agreement.
Combined Credit Agreements
"" means the Lenders hereunder, the Australian Lenders and the Canadian Lenders.
Combined Lenders
"" means the Loan Documents, the Australian Loan Documents and the Canadian Loan Documents.
Combined Loan Documents
"" means the loans made by the Combined Lenders to Borrower, Australian Borrower and Canadian Borrower pursuant to the Combined Loan Documents.
Combined Loans
"" means Combined Lenders having in the aggregate 51% of the aggregate total Combined Commitments under the Combined Loan Documents.
Combined Required Lenders
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit hereunder in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding up to but not exceeding the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on hereto, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to , (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to or pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to , (c) increased from time to time pursuant to , and (d) terminated pursuant to . or . The amount of the Commitment represents such Lender's maximum Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on , or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $1,700,000,000.
Commitment
Schedule 2.1
Section 2.9
Section 2.7
Section 10.4
Section 2.23
Section 4.1
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Schedule 2.1
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Commitment Increase
Section 2.23(a)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Commitment Increase Effective Date
Section 2.23(b)
"" means an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Loan in accordance with , in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent.
Competitive Bid
Section 2.4
Exhibit G
"" means a letter in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent.
Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter
Exhibit H
 
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Bid, the Margin or the Fixed Rate, as applicable, offered by the Lender making such Competitive Bid.
Competitive Bid Rate
"" means a request by Borrower for Competitive Bids in accordance with , in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent.
Competitive Bid Request
Section 2.4
Exhibit E
"" means a Loan made pursuant to .
Competitive Loan
Section 2.4
"" means the total assets of the Borrower and its subsidiaries which would be shown as assets on a consolidated balance sheet of Borrower and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Assets
"" means (i) the consolidated shareholder's equity of Borrower and its Subsidiaries (determined in accordance with GAAP), less (ii) the amount of consolidated intangible assets of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, plus (iii) the aggregate amount of any non-cash write downs, on a consolidated basis, by Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the term hereof.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means all members of a controlled group of corporations and all members of a controlled group of trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with Borrower, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 (b) or 414 (c) of the Internal Revenue Code or Section 4001 of ERISA.
Controlled Group
"" means the Global Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender.
Credit Party
"" of any Person means indebtedness, including capital leases, shown as debt on a consolidated balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Debt
"" is defined in .
Declining Lenders
Section 2.7(c)
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means, as reasonably determined by the Global Administrative Agent in consultation with Borrower, any Lender that (a) has failed, within two (2) Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, to (i) fund any portion of its Loans, (ii) fund any portion of its participations in Letters of Credit, or (iii) pay over to any Credit Party any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Global Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) has notified
Defaulting Lender
 
the Borrower or any Credit Party in writing, or has made a public statement to the effect, that it does not intend or expect to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) to funding a loan under this Agreement cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by the Global Administrative Agent, acting in good faith, to confirm in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent that it will comply with its obligations to fund prospective Loans and participations in then outstanding Letters of Credit under this Agreement, that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this  upon (i) the Global Administrative Agent's receipt of such confirmation, and (ii) compliance in full by such Lender with its funding obligations under this Agreement as of the date of such certification (subject to any exception to funding set forth in  above), or (d) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event.
provided
clause (c)
clause (a)
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means all applicable federal, state or local statutes, laws, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, decrees, judgments, injunctions, legally binding notices or legally binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the protection of the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters relating to the exposure of Hazardous Material.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any successor statute of similar import, together with the rules, regulations and interpretations thereunder, in each case as in effect from time to time.
ERISA
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate (or, in the case of a Competitive Loan, the LIBO Rate).
Eurodollar
"" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "", in either case, based upon the Applicable Rating Level, applicable on such date:
Eurodollar Margin
Eurodollar Margin
 
Each change in the Eurodollar Margin shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. Changes in the Eurodollar Margin will occur automatically without prior notice.
"" is defined in .
Event of Default
Article VIII
"" means, with respect to any Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise Taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income, in each case, (i) by the United States of America (or any political subdivision thereof), or by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its Applicable Lending Office is located, or (ii) as the result of any present or former connection between such recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax other than any connection arising from such recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document, or sold or assigned an interest in any Loan or Loan Document, (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar Tax imposed by any other jurisdiction described in clause (a) above, (c) any backup withholding tax that is required by the Code as a result of such Lender's failure to comply with the requirements of to be withheld from amounts payable to any Lenders, (d) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by Borrower under ), any withholding Tax that is imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new Applicable Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Applicable Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from Borrower with respect to such withholding Tax pursuant to , and (e) any Taxes imposed under FATCA.
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.17(e)(i)
Section 2.19(b)
Section 2.17(e)(i)
Section 2.17(a)
"" means (a) (i) that certain Credit Agreement [U.S. Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache and the lenders and agents party thereto; (ii) that certain Credit Agreement [Canadian Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache Canada and the lenders and agents party thereto; and (iii) that certain Credit Agreement [Australian Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache Energy Limited and the lenders and agents party thereto, and (b) that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 9, 2006, among Apache and the lenders and agents party thereto.
Existing Credit Facilities
 
"" is defined in .
Facility Fee
Section 2.12(a)
"" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "", based upon the Applicable Rating Level applicable on such date:
Facility Fee Rate
Facility Fee Rate
 
Each change in the Facility Fee Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. Changes in the Facility Fee Rate will occur automatically without prior notice.
"" means Sections 1471 through 1474 of the Code as of the date of this Agreement (and any amended or successor version thereof that is substantively comparable), and any current or future regulations or official interpretations thereof.
FATCA
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Global Administrative Agent from three (3) Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means any Letter of Credit other than a Performance Letter of Credit.
Financial Letter of Credit
"" means Fitch, Inc. and any affiliate or successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency in the United States.
Fitch
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Loan (other than a Eurodollar Competitive Loan), the fixed rate of interest per annum (expressed as a decimal to no more than four (4) decimal places) specified by the Lender making such Competitive Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Fixed Rate
 
"" means a Competitive Loan bearing interest at a Fixed Rate.
Fixed Rate Loan
"" means any Lender that is not a U.S. Person.
Foreign Lender
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent with the most recent financial statements of Borrower and its Subsidiaries delivered to the Lenders pursuant hereto.
GAAP
"" means JPMorgan, in its capacity as global administrative agent for the Combined Lenders, and its successors.
Global Administrative Agent
"" means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Royal Bank of Canada, each in its capacity as documentation agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Global Documentation Agents
"" means a date agreed upon by Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent as the date on which the conditions specified in of each Combined Credit Agreement are satisfied (or waived in accordance with of each Combined Credit Agreement).
Global Effective Date
Section 4.1
Section 10.2
"" means a notice and certificate of Borrower properly executed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower addressed to the Combined Lenders and delivered to the Global Administrative Agent, in sufficient number of counterparts to provide one for each such lender and each agent under each Combined Credit Agreement, whereby Borrower certifies satisfaction of all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness under of each Combined Credit Agreement.
Global Effectiveness Notice
Section 4.1
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., each in its capacity as syndication agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Global Syndication Agents
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" means a Guaranty by Apache in favor of the Lenders and the other Lender Parties (as defined therein), in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent, as such Guaranty may from time to time be amended, supplemented, restated, reaffirmed or otherwise modified.
Guaranty
Exhibit L
"" means (a) any "hazardous substance," as defined by CERCLA; (b) any "hazardous waste," as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; or (c) any pollutant or contaminant or hazardous, dangerous or toxic chemical, material or substance within the meaning of any other Environmental Law.
Hazardous Material
"" is defined in .
Highest Lawful Rate
Section 10.12
 
"" of any Person means all (i) Debt, and (ii) guaranties or other contingent obligations in respect of the Debt of any other Person.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, non-credit enhanced, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means a request by Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with , in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent.
Interest Election Request
Section 2.8
Exhibit D
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three (3) months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three (3) months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period, and (c) with respect to any Fixed Rate Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than 90 days' duration (unless otherwise specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request), each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of 90 days' duration after the first day of such Interest Period, and any other dates that are specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request as Interest Payment Dates with respect to such Borrowing.
Interest Payment Date
"" means (a) with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day, or, with the consent of the Global Administrative Agent, such other day, in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender, nine or twelve months) thereafter, in each case, as Borrower may elect, and (b) with respect to any Fixed Rate Borrowing, the period (which shall not be less than seven (7) days or more than 360 days) commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
 
"" means each of (a) the Agents, and (b) each Lender that shall have become an Issuing Bank hereunder as provided in (other than any Person that shall have ceased to be an Issuing Bank as provided in ), as applicable, each in its capacity as an issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder; , , that none of the Agents shall be required to provide Letters of Credit in excess of $100,000,000; that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc shall only be required to issue Standby Letters of Credit but shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause one of its Affiliates to issue any Letter of Credit requested from it pursuant to which is not a Standby Letter of Credit. The Issuing Banks may, in their discretion, and with the approval of Borrower, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of such Issuing Banks, in which case the term "" shall include any such Affiliates with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate (it being agreed that such Issuing Bank shall, or shall cause such Affiliate to, comply with the requirements of with respect to such Letters of Credit).
Issuing Bank
Section 2.5(j)
Section 2.5(k)
provided
however
provided further
Section 2.5
Issuing Bank
Section 2.5
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan
"" is defined in .
Judgment Currency
Section 2.20(b)
"" means a payment made by any Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
"" means the Persons listed on and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance.
Lenders
Schedule 2.1
"" means any letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement.
Letter of Credit
"" is defined in .
Letter of Credit Suspension Notice
Section 2.5(b)
"" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the applicable British Bankers' Association Settlement Rate for deposits in dollars (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) appearing on the Reuters "" screen (or on any successor or substitute screen provided by Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such screen of such service, as reasonably determined by the Global Administrative Agent and Borrower from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Global Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBOR01
LIBO Rate
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge, or security interest of any kind, granted or created to secure Indebtedness; , , that, with respect to any prohibitions of Liens on Property, the following transactions shall not be deemed to create a Lien to secure Indebtedness; (i) production payments and (ii) liens required by statute and created in favor of U.S. governmental entities to secure partial, progress, advance, or other payments intended to be used primarily in connection with air or water pollution control.
Lien
provided
however
"" means any loan made by the Lenders to Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loan
"" means this Agreement, any Guaranty, any Borrowing Request, any Interest Election Request, any Competitive Bid Quote Request, any Notice of Competitive Bid Quote Request, any Competitive Bid, any Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter, any Certificate of Extension, any Assignment and Acceptance, any Additional Borrower Counterpart, any Additional Borrower Termination Notice, any Notice of Commitment Increase, any election notice, the agreement with respect to fees described in , and each other agreement, document or instrument delivered by Borrower or any other Person in connection with this Agreement, as such may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Loan Document
Section 2.12(b)
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Loan bearing interest at a rate based on the LIBO Rate, the marginal rate of interest, if any, to be added to or subtracted from the LIBO Rate to determine the rate of interest applicable to such Loan, as specified by the Lender making such Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Margin
"" means, as to any matter, that such matter could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the assets, business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) of Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. No matter shall be considered to result, or be expected to result, in a Material Adverse Effect unless such matter causes Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to suffer a loss or incur a cost equal to at least ten percent (10%) of Borrower's Consolidated Tangible Net Worth.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means the earliest of:
Maturity Date
(a) the Original Maturity Date, or such other later date as may result from any extension requested by Borrower and consented to by some or all of the Lenders pursuant to .
Section 2.7
(b) the date on which the Commitments are terminated in full or reduced to zero pursuant to ; and
Section 2.9
(c) the date on which the Commitments otherwise are terminated in full and reduced to zero pursuant to the terms of , or .
Section 4.1
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Upon the occurrence of any event described in clause (b) or (c), the Commitments shall terminate automatically and without any further action.
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency in the United States.
Moody's
"" means the amount equal to the product of a CI Lender's increased Commitment or a CI Lender's new Commitment (as applicable) represented as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments after giving effect to the Commitment Increase, times the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Loans immediately prior to giving effect to the Commitment Increase, if any, as of a Commitment Increase Effective Date (without regard to any increase in the aggregate principal amount of Loans as a result of borrowings made after giving effect to the Commitment Increase on such Commitment Increase Effective Date).
New Funds Amount
"" is defined in .
Non-Defaulting Lender
Section 2.18(f)
"" means a notice of request by Borrower for Competitive Bids sent by the Global Administrative Agent to each Lender in accordance with , in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent.
Notice of Competitive Bid Request
Section 2.4
Exhibit F
"" means a notice from the CI Lender in accordance with , in substantially the form of .
Notice of Commitment Increase
Section 2.23
Exhibit K
"" means, at any time, the sum of (i) the outstanding principal amount of any Loans plus (ii) all outstanding LC Disbursements plus (iii) all accrued and unpaid interest, Facility Fees and other fees due pursuant to plus (iv) all other obligations of Borrower or any Subsidiary to any Lender or any Agent, whether or not contingent, arising under or in connection with any of the Loan Documents.
Obligations
Section 2.12
"" means June 4, 2017.
Original Maturity Date
"" is defined in .
Other Currency
Section 2.20(a)
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement. For purposes of clarity, any Taxes imposed under FATCA will not be treated as Other Taxes.
Other Taxes
"" is defined in .
Participant Register
Section 10.4(g)
"" is defined in .
Participants
Section 10.4(e)
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means a "pension plan," as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA, which is subject to Title IV of ERISA (other than a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA), and to which Borrower or any corporation, trade or business that is, along with Borrower, a member of a Controlled Group, may have liability, including any liability by reason of having been a substantial employer within the meaning of Section 4063 of ERISA at any time during the preceding five years, or by reason of being deemed to be a contributing sponsor under Section 4069 of ERISA.
Pension Plan
 
"" means any Letter of Credit issued (a) to ensure the performance of services or the delivery of goods or (b) primarily for the purpose of securing performance obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to Governmental Authorities, including clean-up and remediation obligations, that, for the avoidance of doubt and without limiting the foregoing, no Performance Letter of Credit shall secure or otherwise support any Indebtedness for borrowed money.
Performance Letter of Credit
provided
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, unlimited liability company, joint venture, partnership, firm, association, trust, government, governmental agency or any other entity, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.
Person
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by the Global Administrative Agent as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City. Without notice to Borrower or any other Person, the Prime Rate shall change automatically from time to time as and in the amount by which such prime rate shall fluctuate. The Prime Rate is a reference rate and does not necessarily represent the lowest or best rate actually charged to any customer. The Global Administrative Agent may make commercial loans and other loans at rates of interest at, above or below the Prime Rate. For purposes of this Agreement, any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate shall be effective on the date such change in the Prime Rate is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" means (i) any property owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in property, which is considered by Borrower to be capable of producing oil, gas, or minerals in commercial quantities, (ii) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in any refinery, processing or manufacturing plant owned or leased by Borrower or any manufacturing plant owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary, (iii) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in all present and future oil, gas, other liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, and other minerals now or hereafter produced from any other Property or to which Borrower or any Subsidiary may be entitled as a result of its ownership of any Property, and (iv) all real and personal assets owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary used in the drilling, gathering, processing, transportation, or marketing of any oil, gas, and other hydrocarbons or minerals, except (a) any such real or personal assets related thereto employed in transportation, distribution or marketing or (b) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in, any refinery, processing or manufacturing plant, or portion thereof, which property described in clauses (a) or (b), in the opinion of the board of directors of Borrower, is not a principal plant or principal facility in relation to the activities of Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Property
"" means each then existing Lender immediately prior to giving effect to the Commitment Increase that does not increase its respective Commitment as a result of the Commitment Increase and whose relative percentage of the Commitments shall be reduced after giving effect to such Commitment Increase.
Reducing Percentage Lender
 
"" means the amount by which a Reducing Percentage Lender's outstanding Loans decrease as of a Commitment Increase Effective Date (without regard to the effect of any borrowings made on such Commitment Increase Effective Date after giving effect to the Commitment Increase).
Reduction Amount
"" is defined in .
Register
Section 10.4(c)
"" means any of Regulations T, U or X of the Board from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulations or official interpretations of said Board or any successor Person relating to the extension of credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System or any successor Person.
Regulation U
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" is defined in .
Replacement Lenders
Section 2.7(c)(ii)
"" means Lenders having in the aggregate 51% of the aggregate total Commitments, or, if the Commitments have been terminated, Lenders holding 51% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the outstanding Obligations.
Required Lenders
"" means the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 690, ., as amended from time to time.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
et seq
"" means any Subsidiary of Borrower that owns any asset representing or consisting of an entitlement to production from, or other interest in, reserves of oil, gas or other minerals in place located in the United States or Canada, including, without limitation, Apache Canada, or is otherwise designated as such by Borrower in writing to the Global Administrative Agent.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Loan made pursuant to .
Revolving Loan
Section 2.3
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency.
S&P
"" means any Letter of Credit issued to ensure the performance of either a monetary or a nonmonetary obligation.
Standby Letter of Credit
 
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the applicable maximum reserve percentages (including any basic, marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Global Administrative Agent is subject with respect to the Adjusted LIBO Rate, for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
Eurocurrency Liabilities
"" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other similar entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or other equity) having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or similar governing body or management of such corporation, partnership, limited liability company or entity (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock (or other equity) or any other class or classes of equity of such corporation, partnership, limited liability company or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person.
subsidiary
"" means any subsidiary of Borrower; , , that in all events the following Persons shall not be deemed to be Subsidiaries of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries: Apache Offshore Investment Partnership, a Delaware general partnership, Apache Offshore Petroleum Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Main Pass 151 Pipeline Company, a Texas general partnership, and Apache 681/682 Joint Venture, a Texas joint venture.
Subsidiary
provided
however
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
"" is defined in .
2011 Financials
Section 4.1(e)
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate (a Eurodollar Loan), the Alternate Base Rate or, in the case of a Competitive Loan or Borrowing, the LIBO Rate (a Eurodollar Loan) or a Fixed Rate.
Type
"" or "" means the United States of America, its fifty states and the District of Columbia.
United States
U.S.
"" means any Subsidiary of Borrower that is not a Restricted Subsidiary.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
 
"" means the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001).
USA Patriot Act
"" means a "" within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
United States person
"" means a "welfare plan," as such term is defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA.
Welfare Plan
Section 1.2. . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "") or by Type (e.g., a "") or by Class and Type (e.g., a ""). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "") or by Type (e.g., a "") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
Revolving Loan
Eurodollar Loan
Eurodollar Revolving Loan
Revolving Borrowing
Eurodollar Borrowing
Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing
Section 1.3. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
Section 1.4. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if Borrower notifies the Global Administrative Agent that Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Global Administrative Agent notifies Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
 
Section 2.1. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans in U.S. Dollars to Borrower and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit hereunder from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount up to, but not to exceed, the amount of such Lender's Commitment, that such Loans and Letter of Credit participations will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans exceeding the total Commitments. Subject to the conditions set forth herein, Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans. Apache shall be jointly and severally liable for all Obligations. Any Additional Borrower shall be severally liable for all Obligations which it incurs as further set forth in .
Commitments
provided
Section 10.13
Section 2.2.
Loans and Borrowings.
(a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. Each Competitive Loan shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in . The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments and Competitive Bids of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Section 2.4
provided
(b) Subject to , (i) each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as Borrower may request in accordance herewith, and (ii) each Competitive Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurodollar Loans or Fixed Rate Loans as Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.14
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (including any continuation or conversion of existing Revolving Loans made in connection therewith). At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (including any continuation or conversion of existing Revolving Loans made in connection therewith); that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments, or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by . Each Competitive Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of ten (10) Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
provided
Section 2.5(e)
provided
 
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
Section 2.3. . To request a Revolving Borrowing, Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing; that any such notice of an ABR Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by may be given not later than 12:00 p.m. (noon), New York City time. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Global Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Global Administrative Agent and signed by Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Requests for Revolving Borrowings
provided
Section 2.5(e)
Section 2.2
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "".
Interest Period
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Global Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
Section 2.4.
Competitive Bid Procedure.
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, from time to time during the Availability Period, Borrower may request Competitive Bids and may (but shall not have any obligation to) accept Competitive Bids and borrow Competitive Loans; that the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans at any time shall not exceed the total Commitments. To request Competitive Bids, Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent of such request by telephone, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than noon, New York City time, four Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that Borrower may submit up to (but not more than) five (5) Competitive
provided
provided
 
Bid Requests on the same day, but a Competitive Bid Request shall not be made within five Business Days after the date of any previous Competitive Bid Request, unless any and all such previous Competitive Bid Requests shall have been withdrawn or all Competitive Bids received in response thereto rejected. Each such telephonic Competitive Bid Request shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Global Administrative Agent of a written Competitive Bid Request and signed by Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Competitive Bid Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Section 2.2
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be a Eurodollar Borrowing or a Fixed Rate Borrowing; and
(iv) the Interest Period to be applicable to such Borrowing, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "".
Interest Period
Promptly following receipt of a Competitive Bid Request in accordance with this Section, the Global Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of the details thereof by telecopy to each Lender of a Notice of Competitive Bid Quote Request inviting the Lenders to submit Competitive Bids.
(b) Each Lender may (but shall not have any obligation to) make one or more Competitive Bids to Borrower in response to a Competitive Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid by a Lender must be in a form approved by the Global Administrative Agent and must be received by the Global Administrative Agent by telecopy, in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than noon, New York City time, three Business Days before the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing. Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to the form approved by the Global Administrative Agent may be rejected by the Global Administrative Agent, and the Global Administrative Agent shall notify the applicable Lender as promptly as practicable. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (i) the principal amount (which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Borrowing requested by Borrower) of the Competitive Loan or Loans that the Lender is willing to make, (ii) the Competitive Bid Rate or Rates at which the Lender is prepared to make such Loan or Loans (expressed as a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) and (iii) the Interest Period applicable to each such Loan and the last day thereof. Other than notifying the Borrower pursuant to , the Global Administrative Agent will not disclose that any Lender has submitted a Competitive Bid, or the terms thereof, to any Person until the Borrower accepts or rejects such Competitive Bid.
Section 2.4(c)
(c) The Global Administrative Agent shall promptly notify Borrower by telecopy of a summary of the Competitive Bid Rate and the principal amount specified in each Competitive Bid and the identity of the Lender that shall have made such Competitive Bid.
 
(d) Subject only to the provisions of this paragraph, Borrower may accept or reject any Competitive Bid. Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent by telephone, confirmed by telecopy, in the form of a Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter, whether and to what extent it has decided to accept or reject each Competitive Bid, in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of the Competitive Borrowing; that (i) the failure of Borrower to give such notice shall be deemed to be a rejection of each Competitive Bid, (ii) Borrower shall not accept a Competitive Bid made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if Borrower rejects a Competitive Bid made at a lower Competitive Bid Rate, (iii) the aggregate amount of the Competitive Bids accepted by Borrower shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the requested Competitive Borrowing specified in the related Competitive Bid Request, (iv) to the extent necessary to comply with clause (iii) above, Borrower may accept Competitive Bids at the same Competitive Bid Rate in part, which acceptance, in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro rata in accordance with the amount of each such Competitive Bid, and (v) except pursuant to clause (iv) above, no Competitive Bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Loan unless such Competitive Loan is in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000; that if a Competitive Loan must be in an amount less than $5,000,000 because of the provisions of clause (iv) above, such Competitive Loan may be for a minimum of $1,000,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and in calculating the pro rata allocation of acceptances of portions of multiple Competitive Bids at a particular Competitive Bid Rate pursuant to clause (iv) the amounts shall be rounded to integral multiples of $1,000,000 in a manner determined by Borrower. A notice given by Borrower pursuant to this paragraph shall be irrevocable.
provided
provided further
(e) The Global Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each bidding Lender by telecopy whether or not its Competitive Bid has been accepted (and, if so, the amount and Competitive Bid Rate so accepted), and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Loan in respect of which its Competitive Bid has been accepted.
(f) If the Global Administrative Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its capacity as a Lender, it shall submit such Competitive Bid directly to Borrower at least 30 minutes earlier than the time by which the other Lenders are required to submit their Competitive Bids to the Global Administrative Agent pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.
Section 2.5.
Letters of Credit.
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for its own account or the account of any Subsidiary, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period, and (subject to the conditions set forth in ), the applicable Issuing Bank will issue such Letters of Credit. The Borrower unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that, in connection with any Letter of Credit issued for the account of any Subsidiary as provided in the first sentence of this paragraph, it will be fully responsible for the reimbursement of LC Disbursements, the payment of interest thereon
Section 4.2
 
and the payment of fees due under to the same extent as if it were the sole account party in respect of such Letter of Credit. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted to, or entered into with, any Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
Section 2.12(b)
(b) To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the applicable Issuing Bank) to an Issuing Bank and the Global Administrative Agent (reasonably, but no less than five (5) Business Days, in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with below), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof, whether such Letter of Credit is a Financial Letter of Credit or a Performance Letter of Credit (subject to confirmation of such status by the Global Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, acting reasonably and in consultation with the Borrower) and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. If requested by the applicable Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit; , , that to the extent such application contains terms and conditions that are inconsistent with the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the application shall be conformed to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $500,000,000, (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposure shall not exceed the total Commitments and (iii) following the effectiveness of any Maturity Date extension request, the LC Exposure in respect of all Letters of Credit having an expiration date after the previously effective Maturity Date shall not exceed the aggregate Commitments of the consenting Lenders extended pursuant to ; that an Issuing Bank shall not issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit (other than automatic renewals thereof pursuant to customary evergreen provisions or amendments that do not effect an extension, or increase the stated face amount, of such Letter of Credit) if it shall have been notified by the Global Administrative Agent at the written request of the Required Lenders that a Default or an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and that, as a result, no further Letters of Credit shall be issued by it (a ""); , , that such Issuing Bank shall have received such Letter of Credit Suspension Notice within a sufficient amount of time to process internally the instructions therein contained. Each determination as to whether a Letter of Credit constitutes a Financial Letter of Credit or a Performance Letter of Credit shall be made by the Global Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, acting reasonably and in consultation with the Borrower and, once made, shall be conclusive and binding upon the Borrower, the Lenders and the Issuing Banks.
Section 2.5(c)
provided
however
Section 2.7
provided
Letter of Credit Suspension Notice
provided
however
 
(c) Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business not later than the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof one year after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the then effective Maturity Date; that any Letter of Credit may provide for the renewal thereof for additional periods (which shall in no event extend beyond the date referred to in clause (ii) above) upon notice by Borrower delivered to the Issuing Lender not less than ten (10) days before the then effective expiration date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Letter of Credit issued hereunder may, in the sole discretion of the applicable Issuing Bank, expire after the Maturity Date but on or before the date that is 90 days after the Maturity Date, that the Borrower hereby agrees that it shall provide cash collateral in an amount equal to 102% of the LC Exposure in respect of any such outstanding Letter of Credit to the applicable Issuing Bank at least five (5) days prior to the Maturity Date, which such amount shall be (i) deposited by the Borrower in an account in the name of the Borrower at, and for the benefit of, such Issuing Bank and (ii) held by such Issuing Bank for, and until, the satisfaction of the Borrower's reimbursement obligations in respect of such Letter of Credit until the expiration of such Letter of Credit. The Issuing Bank shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the deposit or through the investment of such deposits, which investments, if any, shall be made by the Issuing Bank, at its option and reasonable discretion, in consultation with the Borrower, and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Any Letter of Credit issued with an expiration date beyond the Maturity Date shall, to the extent of any undrawn amount remaining thereunder on the Maturity Date, cease to be a "" outstanding under this Agreement for purposes of the Lenders' obligations to participate in Letters of Credit pursuant to . For the avoidance of doubt, if the Maturity Date shall be extended pursuant to , "" as referenced in this sentence shall refer to the Maturity Date as extended pursuant to ; that, notwithstanding anything in this Agreement (including hereof) or any other Loan Document to the contrary, the Maturity Date and the Availability Period, as such terms are used in reference to any Issuing Bank or any Letter of Credit issued thereby, may not be extended with respect to any Issuing Bank without the prior written consent of such Issuing Bank. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral pursuant to this , such amount including any accumulated interest or profit (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three (3) Business Days after the expiration of the final Letter of Credit secured by such amounts and, to the extent applicable, any lien related to the cash collateral shall be released by the Issuing Bank.
provided
provided
Letter of Credit
Section 2.5(d)
Section 2.7
Maturity Date
Section 2.7
provided
Section 2.7
Section 2.5(c)
(d) By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, such Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each such Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each such Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Global Administrative Agent, for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in , or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension
Section 2.5(e)
 
of any Letter of Credit ( that such Letter of Credit shall expire no later than the date set forth in ), or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
provided
Section 2.5(c)
(e) If any Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse or cause reimbursement of such LC Disbursement by paying or causing to be paid to the Global Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the Business Day immediately following the date on which the Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement; that the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with that such payment be financed with an ABR Borrowing in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment or cause it to be made shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Borrowing. If the Borrower fails to make such payment or cause it to be made when due, the Global Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Global Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the same manner as provided in with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Global Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the applicable Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Global Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower or any Subsidiary pursuant to this paragraph, the Global Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the applicable Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing Bank, then to such Lenders and such Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Loans as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
provided
Section 2.3
Section 2.6
Section 2.6
(f) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that appears to comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this , constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. To the extent permitted by applicable law, neither the Global Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor any of the Issuing Banks, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error,
Section 2.5(e)
Section 2.5
 
omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the applicable Issuing Bank; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse any Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by such Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
provided
(g) The applicable Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. The applicable Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Global Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether such Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.
provided
(h) If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Loans; that, if the Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement by the date that is three (3) Business Days following the date such reimbursement is due pursuant to , then shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to to reimburse such Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
provided
Section 2.5(e)
Section 2.13(d)
Section 2.5(e)
(i) If any Event of Default described in shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Global Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Global Administrative Agent, in the name of the Global Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit
Section 8.1(a)
provided
 
shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the (i) occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in or (ii) acceleration of the maturity of the Loans and termination of the Commitments pursuant to . Each such deposit shall be held by the Global Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement in accordance with this paragraph. The Global Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Global Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Global Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Banks for LC Disbursements for which they have not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount including any accumulated interest or profit (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three (3) Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived and, to the extent applicable, any lien related to the cash collateral shall be released by the Global Administrative Agent.
Section 8.1(g)
Section 8.3
(j) The Borrower may, at any time and from time to time, upon notice to the Global Administrative Agent, designate as additional Issuing Banks one or more Lenders that agree to serve in such capacity as provided below. The acceptance by a Lender of an appointment as an Issuing Bank hereunder shall be evidenced by an agreement, which shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such additional Issuing Bank, executed by the Borrower, the Global Administrative Agent and such additional Issuing Bank and, from and after the effective date of such agreement, (i) such Lender shall have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement and (ii) references herein to the term "" shall be deemed to include such Lender in its capacity as an issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Issuing Bank
(k) The Borrower may terminate the appointment of any Issuing Bank as an "" hereunder by providing a written notice thereof to such Issuing Bank, with a copy to the Global Administrative Agent. Any such termination shall become effective upon the earlier of (i) such Issuing Bank acknowledging receipt of such notice and (ii) the 10th Business Day following the date of the delivery thereof; that no such termination shall become effective until and unless the LC Exposure attributable to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank (or its Affiliates) shall have been reduced to zero. At the time any such termination shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the terminated Issuing Bank pursuant to . Notwithstanding the effectiveness of any such termination, the terminated Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such termination, but shall not issue any additional Letters of Credit. Without limiting the foregoing, following the delivery by the Borrower of any notice of termination in respect of any Issuing Bank (and regardless of whether such notice has become effective), such Issuing Bank shall have no obligation to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit.
Issuing Bank
provided
Section 2.12(b)
 
Section 2.6.
Funding of Borrowings.
(a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 1:00 p.m., New York City time, to the account of the Global Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Global Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of Borrower designated by Borrower from time to time in a written notice to the Global Administrative Agent executed by (i) two Authorized Officers of Apache and (ii) with respect to a Loan to an Additional Borrower, two Authorized Officers of such Additional Borrower; that ABR Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in shall be remitted by the Global Administrative Agent to the applicable Issuing Bank.
provided
Section 2.5(e)
(b) Unless the Global Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Global Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Global Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on the requested date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Global Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and Borrower severally agree to pay to the Global Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Global Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate or a rate determined by the Global Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Loans made in such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Global Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
Section 2.7.
Extension of Maturity Date and of Commitments.
(a) Subject to the other provisions of this Agreement and that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the total Commitments shall be effective for an initial period from the Global Effective Date to the Original Maturity Date; that the applicable Maturity Date, and concomitantly the total Commitments, may be extended (but not more than twice during the life of this Agreement) for successive one year periods expiring on the date which is one year from the then scheduled Maturity Date. If Borrower shall request in a Certificate of Extension delivered to the Global Administrative Agent at least 45 days but not more than 90 days prior to a date which is an anniversary of the Global Effective Date that the Maturity Date be extended for one year from the then scheduled Maturity Date, then the Global Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request and each Lender shall notify the Global Administrative Agent, no later than 30 days prior to such anniversary of the Global Effective Date, whether such Lender, in the exercise of its sole discretion, will extend the Maturity Date for such one year period. Any Lender which shall not timely notify the Global Administrative Agent whether it will extend the Maturity Date shall be deemed to not have
provided
provided
 
agreed to extend the Maturity Date. No Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to extend the Maturity Date. Any agreement to extend the Maturity Date by any Lender shall be irrevocable, except as provided in .
Section 2.7(c)
(b) If all Lenders notify the Global Administrative Agent pursuant to of their agreement to extend the Maturity Date, then the Global Administrative Agent shall so notify each Lender and Borrower, and such extension shall be effective without other or further action by any party hereto for such additional one year period.
Section 2.7(a)
(c) If Lenders constituting at least the Required Lenders approve the extension of the then scheduled Maturity Date (such Lenders agreeing to extend the Maturity Date herein called the "") and if one or more Lenders shall notify, or be deemed to notify, the Global Administrative Agent pursuant to that they will not extend the then scheduled Maturity Date (such Lenders herein called the ""), then (A) the Global Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify Borrower and the Accepting Lenders, (B) the Accepting Lenders shall, upon Borrower's election to extend the then scheduled Maturity Date in accordance with clause (i) or (ii) below, extend the then scheduled Maturity Date and (C) Borrower shall, pursuant to a notice delivered to the Global Administrative Agent, the Accepting Lenders and the Declining Lenders, no later than the tenth (10
Accepting Lenders
Section 2.7(a)
Declining Lenders
th
) day following the date by which each Lender is required, pursuant to , to approve or disapprove the requested extension of the total Commitments, either:
Section 2.7(a)
(i) elect to extend the Maturity Date and direct the Declining Lenders to terminate their Commitments, which termination shall become effective on the date which would have been the Maturity Date except for the operation of this Section. On the date which would have been the Maturity Date except for the operation of this Section, (x) Borrower shall deliver a notice of the effectiveness of such termination to the Declining Lenders with a copy to the Global Administrative Agent and (y) Borrower shall pay in full in immediately available funds all Obligations of Borrower owing to the Declining Lenders, including any amounts required pursuant to , and (z) upon the occurrence of the events set forth in clauses (x) and (y), the Declining Lenders shall each cease to be a Lender hereunder for all purposes, other than for purposes of through , and , and shall cease to have any obligations or any Commitment hereunder, other than to the Agents pursuant to , and the Global Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Accepting Lenders and Borrower of the new Commitments; or
Section 2.16
Section 2.15
Section 2.18
Section 2.20
Section 10.3
Article IX
(ii) elect to extend the Maturity Date and, prior to or no later than the then scheduled Maturity Date, (A) to replace one or more of the Declining Lenders with another lender or lenders reasonably acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent (such lenders herein called the "") and (B) Borrower shall pay in full in immediately available funds all Obligations of Borrower owing to any Declining Lenders which are not being replaced, as provided in clause (i) above; that (x) any Replacement Lender shall purchase, and any Declining Lender shall sell, such Declining Lender's rights and obligations hereunder without recourse or expense to, or warranty by, such Declining Lender being replaced for a purchase price equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Obligations payable to such Declining Lender plus
Replacement Lenders
provided
 
any accrued but unpaid interest on such Obligations and accrued but unpaid fees or other amounts owing in respect of such Declining Lender's Loans and Commitments hereunder, including compensation for any break funding, to the extent required by , and (y) upon the payment of such amounts referred to in clause (x) and the execution of an Assignment and Acceptance by such Replacement Lender and such Declining Lender, such Replacement Lender shall constitute a Lender hereunder and such Declining Lender being so replaced shall no longer constitute a Lender (other than for purposes of through , and ), and shall no longer have any obligations hereunder, other than to the Agents pursuant to ; or
Section 2.16
Section 2.15
Section 2.18
Section 2.20
Section 10.3
Article IX
(iii) elect to revoke and cancel the extension request in such Certificate of Extension by giving notice of such revocation and cancellation to the Global Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof) no later than the tenth (10
th
) day following the date by which each Lender is required, pursuant to , to approve or disapprove the requested extension of the Maturity Date, and concomitantly the total Commitments.
Section 2.7(a)
If Borrower fails to timely provide the election notice referred to in this , Borrower shall be deemed to have revoked and cancelled the extension request in the Certificate of Extension and to have elected not to extend the Maturity Date.
Section 2.7(c)
Section 2.8.
Interest Elections.
(a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request (or an ABR Borrowing if no Type is specified) and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request (or one month if no Interest Period is specified). Thereafter, Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. Borrower may, subject to the requirements of , elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Competitive Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
Section 2.2(c)
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under if Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Global Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request signed by Borrower.
Section 2.3
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Section 2.2
 
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "".
Interest Period
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Global Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Global Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing, (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid and provided the Indebtedness has not been accelerated pursuant to , each Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
Section 8.3
Section 2.9.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
(a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
(b) Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with , the sum of the Revolving Credit Exposures plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Loans would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
Section 2.11
 
(c) Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under at least two Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Global Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by Borrower (by notice to the Global Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
Section 2.9(b)
provided
Section 2.10.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
(a) Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date or, if earlier, the date on which the Commitment of such Lender relating to such Revolving Loan is terminated (except for termination of the Commitment of the assigning Lender pursuant to ), and (ii) to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Loan on the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan.
Section 10.4(b)
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Global Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Global Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to or shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Global Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.10(b)
Section 2.10(c)
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by one or more promissory notes. In such event, Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender promissory notes payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns and in a form approved by the Global Administrative Agent). Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory notes and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to ) be represented by one or more promissory
Section 10.4
 
notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if any such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Section 2.11.
Prepayment of Loans.
(a) Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section; that Borrower shall not have the right to prepay any Competitive Loan without the prior consent of the Lender thereof and compensation for break funding, to the extent required by .
provided
Section 2.16
(b) Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by , then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with . Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Global Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in . Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by and compensation for break funding, to the extent required by .
provided
Section 2.9
Section 2.9
Section 2.2
Section 2.13
Section 2.16
Section 2.12.
Fees.
(a) Borrower agrees to pay to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender on a pro rata basis (based on Commitments) a facility fee (the ""), which Facility Fee shall accrue at the Facility Fee Rate on the daily amount of the Commitments (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Global Effective Date to but excluding the Maturity Date; that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such Facility Fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on the first day of April, July and October and the second day of January of each year, as applicable, and on the Maturity Date, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Global Effective Date; that any Facility Fees accruing as of the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Facility Fee
provided
provided
 
(b) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a commission with respect to all outstanding Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at a per annum rate equal to the Eurodollar Margin then in effect on the face amount of each such Letter of Credit during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to any Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate or rates per annum separately agreed upon between the Borrower and such Issuing Bank on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Global Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as such Issuing Bank's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of March, June, September and December of each year shall be payable on the third Business Day following such last day, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Global Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to any Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(c) Borrower agrees to pay to the Global Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent.
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Global Administrative Agent (or to any Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of Facility Fees and commissions pursuant to , to the Lenders. Any and all fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
Section 2.12(b)
Section 2.13.
Interest.
(a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest on the daily amount outstanding at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Base Rate Margin.
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest on the daily amount outstanding (i) in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Loan, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Eurodollar Margin, or (ii) in the case of a Eurodollar Competitive Loan, at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus (or minus, as applicable) the Margin applicable to such Loan.
(c) Each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear interest on the daily amount outstanding at the Fixed Rate applicable to such Loan.
 
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in .
Section 2.13(a)
(e) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans on the Maturity Date; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan, accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion, and (iv) with respect to any Declining Lender, accrued interest shall be paid upon the termination of the Commitment of such Lender.
provided
Section 2.13(d)
(f) Subject to , all interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to (i) the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate and (ii) the Fixed Rate, shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate, Adjusted LIBO Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Global Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 10.12
Section 2.14. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Global Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Global Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; or
(c) the Global Administrative Agent determines in good faith (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that by reason of circumstances affecting the interbank dollar market generally, deposits in dollars in the London interbank dollar market are not being offered for the applicable Interest Period and in an amount equal to the amount of the Eurodollar Loan requested by Borrower,
then the Global Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Global Administrative Agent notifies Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving
 
Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as a Eurodollar Loan having the shortest Interest Period which is not unavailable under through , and if no Interest Period is available, as an ABR Borrowing, (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as a Eurodollar Loan having the shortest Interest Period which is not unavailable under through , and if no Interest Period is available, as an ABR Borrowing, and (iii) any request by Borrower for a Eurodollar Competitive Borrowing shall be ineffective; that (A) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice do not affect all the Lenders, then requests by Borrower for Eurodollar Competitive Borrowings may be made to Lenders that are not affected thereby and (B) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
Section 2.14(a)
Section 2.14(c)
Section 2.14(a)
Section 2.14(c)
provided
Section 2.15.
Increased Costs.
(a) If any Change in Law shall:
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or any Issuing Bank; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or any Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans or Fixed Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or such Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or such Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then Borrower will pay to such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or any Issuing Bank reasonably determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or such Issuing Bank or such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time Borrower will pay to such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Issuing Bank or such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
 
(c) A certificate of a Lender or an Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or such Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section (together with the calculation thereof) shall be delivered to Borrower and shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error. Borrower shall pay such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or any Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or an Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided further
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, a Lender shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this Section in respect of any Competitive Loan if the Change in Law that would otherwise entitle it to such compensation shall have been publicly announced prior to submission of the Competitive Bid pursuant to which such Loan was made.
Section 2.16. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Revolving Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under and is revoked in accordance therewith(d) the failure to borrow any Competitive Loan after accepting the Competitive Bid to make such Loan, or (e) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan or Fixed Rate Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by Borrower pursuant to either or then, in any such event, Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive, together with the calculation thereof, pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to Borrower and to the Global Administrative Agent and shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error. Borrower shall pay to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
Section 2.11(b)
),
Section 2.7
Section 2.19
 
Section 2.17.
Taxes.
(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction or withholding for any Taxes; that if Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct or withhold any Taxes from such payments, then (i) Borrower shall make such deduction or withholding, (ii) Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law, and (iii) if such Tax is an Indemnified Tax or Other Tax, the sum payable by Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions or withholdings (including deductions and withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Global Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deduction or withholding been made.
provided
(b) In addition, Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) Borrower shall pay the Global Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank, within 10 days after written demand therefor, the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Global Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto (other than any such penalties or interest arising through the failure of the Global Administrative Agent or Lender to act as a reasonably prudent agent or lender, respectively), whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to Borrower by a Lender or an Issuing Bank, or by the Global Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by Borrower to a Governmental Authority pursuant to this , Borrower shall deliver to the Global Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent.
Section 2.17
(e) Status of Lenders; Tax Documentation.
(i) Each Lender that is a U.S. Person shall deliver to Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent on or before the date on which it becomes a party to this Agreement two (2) duly completed and executed originals of United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 (or any successor form) certifying that such Lender is exempt from U.S. federal withholding tax.
 
(ii) Each Foreign Lender agrees that such Lender will deliver to Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent (or, in the case of a Participant, to the Lender from which the related participation shall have been purchased) two (2) duly completed and executed originals of United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8 BEN, W-8 ECI and/or W 8 IMY (together with any applicable underlying Internal Revenue Service withholding certificates that may be required) certifying in each case that such Lender is entitled to receive payments from the Borrower under the Loan Documents without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes. Such forms shall be delivered by each Foreign Lender on or before the date it becomes a party to this Agreement (or, in the case of any Participant, on or before the date such Participant purchases the related participation) and from time to time thereafter upon the request of Borrower or the Global Administrative Agent. Each Lender which so delivers a Form W-8 BEN, W-8 ECI or W-8 IMY further undertakes to deliver to Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent two (2) additional executed originals of such form (or a successor form) on or before such form expires or becomes obsolete or after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent form so delivered by it and such amendments thereto or extensions or renewals thereof as may be reasonably requested by Borrower or the Global Administrative Agent, in each case, certifying that such Lender is entitled to receive payments from Borrower under the Loan Documents without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, unless (A) an event (including without limitation any change in treaty, law or regulation) has occurred prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Lender from duly completing and delivering any such form with respect to it and (B) such Lender advises Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent that it is not capable of receiving such payments without any deduction or withholding of United States federal income tax. Any Foreign Lender shall, to the extent it is legally entitled to do so, deliver to Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the reasonable request of Borrower or the Global Administrative Agent), executed originals of any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States federal withholding Tax, duly completed, together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit Borrower or the Global Administrative Agent to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
(iii) In addition to the applicable United States Internal Revenue Service Forms required to be delivered pursuant to , each Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under Section 881(c) of the Code shall deliver a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of Section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in Section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code.
Section 2.17(e)(ii)
 
(iv) If a payment made to a Lender, the Global Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank under any Loan Document would be subject to United States federal withholding Tax imposed by FATCA if such Lender, the Global Administrative Agent or Issuing Bank were to fail to comply with the applicable reporting requirements of FATCA (including those contained in Section 1471(b) or 1472(b) of the Code, as applicable), such Lender, the Global Administrative Agent or Issuing Bank shall deliver to Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent at the time or times prescribed by law and at such time or times reasonably requested by Borrower or the Global Administrative Agent such documentation prescribed by applicable law (including as prescribed by Section 1471(b)(3)(C)(i) of the Code) and such additional documentation reasonably requested by Borrower or the Global Administrative Agent as may be necessary for Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent to comply with their obligations under FATCA and to determine that such Lender or the Global Administrative Agent has complied with the obligations of such Lender or the Global Administrative Agent under FATCA or to determine the amount to deduct and withhold from such payment. Solely for purposes of this , "" shall include any amendments made to FATCA after the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.17(e)(iv)
FATCA
Section 2.18.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs.
(a) Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it to the Global Administrative Agent hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under , , , or otherwise) prior to 1:00 p.m., New York City time, and, with respect to reimbursement of LC Disbursements, prior to 2:00 p.m., New York City time, in each case, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. All such payments shall be made to the Global Administrative Agent, c/o Loan & Agency Services Group, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., 1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor, Houston, Texas 77002-8069, Attention: Bejaye E. Ilegbodu, telephone no.: 713-750-4147, facsimile no.: 713-427-6307, except payments to be made directly to any Issuing Bank as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to , and shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Global Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
Section 2.15
Section 2.16
Section 2.17
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 10.3
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Global Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties. If insufficient funds are received due to Borrower's entitlement to withhold amounts on account of Excluded Taxes in relation to a particular Lender, such insufficiency shall not be subject to this but shall be withheld from and shall only affect payments made to such Lender.
Section 2.18(b)
 
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in the LC Disbursements of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent (x) Borrower may effectively do so under applicable law, and (y) any Lender may effectively do so pursuant to , that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
Section 10.8
(d) Unless the Global Administrative Agent shall have received notice from Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or any Issuing Bank hereunder that Borrower will not make such payment, the Global Administrative Agent may assume that Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or any Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or any Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Global Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or such Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Global Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Global Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to , then the Global Administrative Agent may, in its discretion, notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Global Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender for the benefit of the Global Administrative Agent to satisfy such Lender's obligations to it under such Section until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid, and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Lender under any such Section, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Global Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion.
Section 2.18(d)
 
(f) Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary contained herein, if any Defaulting Lender shall have failed to fund a Loan forming any portion of a Borrowing (each such Loan, an ""), (i) each payment by Borrower on account of the interest on such Borrowing shall be distributed to each Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender (each, a "") pro rata based on the outstanding principal amount of such Borrowing owing to all Non-Defaulting Lenders, and (ii) each prepayment of a Borrowing by Borrower pursuant to shall be distributed (x) to each Non-Defaulting Lender pro rata based on the outstanding principal amount of such Borrowing owing to all Non-Defaulting Lenders, until the principal amount of such Borrowing (other than the Affected Loans) has been repaid in full and (y) to the extent of any remaining amount of such prepayment relating to such Borrowing, to each Lender which has amounts outstanding with respect to such Borrowing pro rata in accordance with such Lender's Applicable Percentage.
Affected Loan
Non-Defaulting Lender
Section 2.11
Section 2.19.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
(a) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Applicable Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender hereunder, then Borrower may upon notice to such Lender and the Global Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse or expense to, or warranty by, such Lender (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in ), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any outstanding Competitive Loans held by it) to an assignee designated by Borrower which meets the requirements of that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Global Administrative Agent (and if participations in Letters of Credit are being assigned, the applicable Issuing Banks), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans (other than Competitive Loans) and participations in LC Disbursements, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Borrower (in the case of all other amounts), (iii) the assignee and assignor shall have entered into an Assignment and Acceptance, and (iv) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments.
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 10.4
Section 10.4(b)
provided
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
 
Section 2.20.
Currency Conversion and Currency Indemnity.
(a) . Borrower shall make payment relative to any Obligation in the currency (the "") in which the Obligation was effected. If any payment is received on account of any Obligation in any currency (the "") other than the Agreed Currency (whether voluntarily or pursuant to an order or judgment or the enforcement thereof or the realization of any security or the liquidation of Borrower or otherwise howsoever), such payment shall constitute a discharge of the liability of Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents in respect of such obligation only to the extent of the amount of the Agreed Currency which the relevant Lender or Agent, as the case may be, is able to purchase with the amount of the Other Currency received by it on the Business Day next following such receipt in accordance with its normal procedures and after deducting any premium and costs of exchange.
Payments in Agreed Currency
Agreed Currency
Other Currency
(b) . If, for the purpose of obtaining or enforcing judgment in any court in any jurisdiction, it becomes necessary to convert into a particular currency (the "") any amount due in the Agreed Currency then the conversion shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange prevailing on the next Business Day following the date such judgment is given and in any event Borrower shall be obligated to pay the Agents and the Lenders any deficiency in accordance with . For the foregoing purposes "rate of exchange" means the rate at which the relevant Lender or Agent, as applicable, in accordance with its normal banking procedures is able on the relevant date to purchase the Agreed Currency with the Judgment Currency after deducting any premium and costs of exchange.
Conversion of Agreed Currency into Judgment Currency
Judgment Currency
Section 2.20(c)
(c) . If (i) any Lender or any Agent receives any payment or payments on account of the liability of Borrower hereunder pursuant to any judgment or order in any Other Currency, and (ii) the amount of the Agreed Currency which the relevant Lender or Agent, as applicable, is able to purchase on the Business Day next following such receipt with the proceeds of such payment or payments in accordance with its normal procedures and after deducting any premiums and costs of exchange is less than the amount of the Agreed Currency due in respect of such obligations immediately prior to such judgment or order, then Borrower on demand shall, and Borrower hereby agrees to, indemnify and save the Lenders and the Agents harmless from and against any loss, cost or expense arising out of or in connection with such deficiency.
Circumstances Giving Rise to Indemnity
(d) . The agreement of indemnity provided for in shall constitute an obligation separate and independent from all other obligations contained in this Agreement, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by the Lenders or Agents or any of them from time to time, and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order for a liquidated sum in respect of an amount due hereunder or under any judgment or order.
Indemnity Separate Obligation
Section 2.20(c)
Section 2.21. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
Defaulting Lenders
 
(a) Fees shall cease to accrue on the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to .
Section 2.12
(b) The Commitment and Revolving Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included (in either the calculation of aggregate Commitments, outstanding Obligations or otherwise) in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to ); , that this clause (b) shall not apply to the vote of a Defaulting Lender in the case of an amendment, waiver or other modification requiring the consent of such Lender as a Lender affected thereby pursuant to .
Section 10.2
provided
Section 10.2(b)
(c) If any LC Exposure exists at the time a Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender then:
(i) all or any part of such LC Exposure shall be reallocated among the Non-Defaulting Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages (for the purposes of such reallocation the Defaulting Lender's Commitment shall be disregarded in determining the Non-Defaulting Lender's Applicable Percentage) but only to the extent (x) the sum of all Non-Defaulting Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures plus such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure does not exceed the total of all Non-Defaulting Lenders' Commitments and (y) the sum of each Non-Defaulting Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure plus its reallocated share of such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure does not exceed such Non-Defaulting Lender's Commitment;
(ii) if the LC Exposure of the Non-Defaulting Lenders is reallocated pursuant to this , then the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to shall be adjusted in accordance with such Non-Defaulting Lenders' Applicable Percentages; and
Section 2.21
Section 2.12
(iii) if any Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure is not reallocated pursuant to , then, without prejudice to any rights or remedies of any Issuing Bank or any Lender hereunder, all commitment fees that otherwise would have been payable to such Defaulting Lender (solely with respect to the portion of such Defaulting Lender's Commitment that was utilized by such LC Exposure) and letter of credit fees payable under with respect to such Defaulting Lender's LC Exposure shall be payable to the applicable Issuing Bank until such LC Exposure is reallocated.
Section 2.21(c)
Section 2.12(b)
(d) So long as any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, no Issuing Bank shall be required to issue, extend or increase any Letter of Credit, unless it is satisfied that the related exposure will be 100% covered by the Commitments of the Non-Defaulting Lenders, and participating interests in any such newly issued or increased Letter of Credit shall be allocated among Non-Defaulting Lenders in a manner consistent with (and Defaulting Lenders shall not participate therein).
Section 2.5(d)
(e) Borrower may elect to replace any Defaulting Lender in accordance with the provisions of . In the event that the Global Administrative Agent, the Borrower and the Issuing Bank each agrees that a Defaulting Lender has adequately remedied all matters that caused such Lender to be a Defaulting Lender, then the Revolving Credit Exposure of the Lenders shall be readjusted to reflect the inclusion of such Lender's Commitment and on such
Section 2.19(b)
 
date, if necessary as a result of a Loan funding pursuant to , such Lender shall purchase at par such of the Loans of the other Lenders as the Global Administrative Agent shall determine may be necessary in order for such Lender to hold such Loans in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
Section 2.5(h)
Section 2.22.
Additional Borrowers
.
(a) A Person which is a Subsidiary which is a resident of, and domiciled in, the United States may become an Additional Borrower with respect hereto, and shall be bound by and entitled to the benefits and obligations of this Agreement as a Borrower hereunder to the same extent as any other Additional Borrower, upon the fulfillment of the following conditions:
(i) . Such Person shall deliver all the items identified in with respect to such Person.
Resolutions and Officers' Certificates
Section 4.1(a)
(ii) . An Authorized Officer of each Borrower shall have delivered to the Global Administrative Agent a certificate stating that such Person is a Subsidiary of Apache which is resident of, and domiciled in, the United States.
Certificate
(iii) . No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
No Default
(iv) . The representations and warranties in hereto are true and correct with respect to such Person, mutatis mutandis, as of the date such Person executes the Additional Borrower Counterpart described in below.
Representations and Warranties
Article III
Section 2.22(a)(v)
(v) . Such Person shall execute an Additional Borrower Counterpart to this Agreement, substantially in the form of (the "") or such other agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent.
Additional Borrower Counterpart
Exhibit I
Additional Borrower Counterpart
(vi) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received legal opinions, dated as of the date such Person executes the Additional Borrower Counterpart described above, addressed to the Agents and the Lenders, having substantially the same coverage as those opinions attached hereto as , including, without limitation, covering the Guaranty, and in form and substance acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent, in its reasonable discretion.
Opinions of Counsel
Exhibit A
(vii) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have approved the addition of such Person as an Additional Borrower, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Approval
(viii) . Such Person shall provide information and documentation necessary to comply with Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act, and such other evidence as is reasonably requested by either the Global Administrative Agent, on behalf of itself or any Lender, or by any Lender to comply with all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations.
USA Patriot Act Requirements and other Identification Requirements
 
(ix) . The Global Administrative Agent and each Lender shall have received prior written notice from an Authorized Officer of Apache of an Additional Borrower becoming party to this Agreement at least five (5) Business Days prior to the date selected for such Additional Borrower to become party to this Agreement.
Notice
(x) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received an executed Guaranty from Apache.
Guaranty
(b) Upon fulfillment of the conditions in this , the Global Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of the date that such Person becomes an Additional Borrower hereunder.
Section 2.22(a)
(c) In the event that any Additional Borrower determines that it no longer desires to be a Borrower under this Agreement and so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such Additional Borrower shall deliver to the Global Administrative Agent an Additional Borrower Termination Notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit J (the ""), executed by such Additional Borrower and Apache. Within five (5) Business Days following receipt of the Global Administrative Agent's consent to the removal of such Additional Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, such Additional Borrower shall pay to the Global Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender and Issuing Bank, as applicable, the full amount of any outstanding Loan made and cash collateralize the stated amount of all Letters of Credit issued, as applicable, to such Additional Borrower in accordance with the prepayment provisions of . Upon receipt by the Global Administrative Agent of all amounts due from such Additional Borrower, the Global Administrative Agent shall acknowledge the removal of such Additional Borrower, and the termination of any obligations of such Additional Borrower under this Agreement, by delivering its countersignature to the applicable Additional Borrower Termination Notice, following which delivery, such Additional Borrower shall cease to be a Borrower under this Agreement.
Additional Borrower Termination Notice
Section 2.11
Section 2.23.
Increase in Commitments
.
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower shall have the right to cause from time to time an increase in the Commitments of the Lenders by up to $500,000,000 in the aggregate (a "") by adding to this Agreement one or more additional financial institutions that are not already Lenders hereunder and that are consented to by the Global Administrative Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) or by allowing one or more existing Lenders to increase their respective Commitments (each a ""); provided, however that (i) at the time of the Commitment Increase, no Event of Default shall have occurred which is continuing, (ii) no such Commitment Increase shall cause the total amount of the Commitments to exceed $2,200,000,000, (iii) no Lender's Commitment shall be increased without such Lender's prior written consent (which consent may be given or withheld in such Lender's sole and absolute discretion), (iv) if, on the effective date of such increase, any Loans have been funded, then the Borrower shall be obligated to pay any breakage fees or costs in connection with the reallocation of such outstanding Loans, and (v) each CI Lender shall execute a Notice of Commitment Increase and deliver such executed notice to the Global Administrative Agent.
Commitment Increase
CI Lender
 
(b) Any Commitment Increase must be requested by written notice from the Borrower to the Global Administrative Agent (a "") in the form of attached hereto. Once the Notice of Commitment Increase is fully-executed, such notice and such Commitment Increase shall be effective on the proposed effective date set forth in such notice (not less than five (5) Business Days after receipt by the Global Administrative Agent) or on another date agreed to by the Global Administrative Agent and the Borrower (such date referred to as the "").
Notice of Commitment Increase
Exhibit K
Commitment Increase Effective Date
(c) On each Commitment Increase Effective Date, to the extent that there are Loans outstanding as of such date, (i) each CI Lender shall, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, deliver to the Global Administrative Agent such CI Lender's New Funds Amount, which amount, for each such CI Lender, shall constitute Loans made by such CI Lender to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement on such Commitment Increase Effective Date, (ii) the Global Administrative Agent shall, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, pay to each then Reducing Percentage Lender its Reduction Amount, which amount, for each such Reducing Percentage Lender, shall constitute a prepayment by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.11, ratably in accordance with the respective principal amounts thereof, of the principal amounts of all then outstanding Loans of such Reducing Percentage Lender, and (iii) the Borrower shall be responsible to pay to each Lender any breakage fees or costs in connection with the reallocation of any outstanding Loans.
(d) Each Commitment Increase shall become effective on its Commitment Increase Effective Date and upon such effectiveness (i) the Global Administrative Agent shall record in its records the CI Lender's information as provided in the Notice of Commitment Increase and pursuant to an Administrative Questionnaire in form satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent that shall be executed and delivered by each CI Lender to the Global Administrative Agent on or before the Commitment Increase Effective Date, (ii) Schedule 2.1 hereof shall be amended and restated to set forth all Lenders (including any CI Lenders) that will be Lenders hereunder after giving effect to such Commitment Increase (which shall be set forth in Annex I to the applicable Notice of Commitment Increase) and the Global Administrative Agent shall distribute to each Lender (including each CI Lender) a copy of such amended and restated Schedule 2.1, and (iii) each CI Lender identified on the Notice of Commitment Increase for such Commitment Increase shall be a "Lender" for all purposes under this Agreement.
In order to induce the Lenders and the Agents to enter into this Agreement and the Lenders to make Loans hereunder, Borrower represents and warrants unto the Agents and each Lender as set forth in this .
Article III
Section 3.1. . Apache is a corporation, and each of its Subsidiaries is a corporation or other legal entity, in either case duly incorporated or otherwise properly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of
Organization
incorporation or organization and has all requisite authority, permits and approvals, and is in good standing to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted where the failure to so qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 3.2. . The execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and each other Loan Document executed or to be executed by it, are within Borrower's corporate, limited liability company, partnership or other similar powers, as applicable, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, limited liability company, partnership or other similar action on behalf of it, and do not (a) contravene Borrower's certificate of incorporation or other organizational documents, as the case may be; (b) contravene any material contractual restriction, law or governmental regulation or court decree or order binding on or affecting Borrower or any Subsidiary; or (c) result in, or require the creation or imposition of, any Lien, not permitted by , on any of Borrower's or any Subsidiary's properties. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document executed by Borrower will, on the due execution and delivery thereof, constitute, the legal, valid and binding obligations of Borrower enforceable in accordance with their respective terms subject as to enforcement only to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditor rights generally and to general principles of equity.
Authorization and Validity
Section 7.1
Section 3.3. . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or other Person is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Neither Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company," within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Government Approval and Regulation
Section 3.4. . During the twelve-consecutive-month period prior to the date of the execution and delivery of this Agreement and prior to the date of any Borrowing hereunder, no steps have been taken to terminate any Pension Plan, and no contribution failure has occurred with respect to any Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA. No condition exists or event or transaction has occurred with respect to any Pension Plan which would result in the incurrence by Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group of any liability, fine or penalty in excess of $150,000,000. Neither Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has any contingent liability with respect to any post-retirement benefit under a Welfare Plan, other than liability for continuation coverage described in Part 6 of Title I of ERISA.
Pension and Welfare Plans
Section 3.5. . Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock, and no proceeds of any Loans will be used for a purpose which violates, or would be inconsistent with, Regulation U. Terms for which meanings are provided in Regulations U are used in this Section with such meanings.
Regulation U
Section 3.6. . Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has to the best knowledge of Borrower after due investigation filed all tax returns and reports required by law to have been filed by it and has paid all taxes and governmental charges thereby shown to be owing, except any such taxes or charges which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP shall have been set aside on its books or which the failure to file or pay could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
 
Section 3.7. . hereto contains an accurate list of all of the presently existing Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, Restricted Subsidiaries of Borrower as of the date of this Agreement, setting forth their respective jurisdictions of incorporation or organization and the percentage of their respective capital stock or, the revenue share attributable to the general and limited partnership interests, as the case may be, owned by Borrower or other Subsidiaries. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of such Subsidiaries which are corporations have been duly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Subsidiaries; Restricted Subsidiaries
Schedule 3.7
Section 3.8. . As of the Global Effective Date, no Default or Event of Default exits.
No Default or Event of Default
Section 4.1. . This Agreement shall become effective upon the prior or concurrent satisfaction of each of the conditions precedent set forth in this .
Effectiveness
Section 4.1
(a) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received from Borrower a certificate, dated the Global Effective Date, of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of Borrower as to (i) resolutions of its governing board, then in full force and effect authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each other Loan Document to be executed by it; (ii) the incumbency and signatures of those of its officers authorized to act with respect to this Agreement and each other Loan Document executed by it; and (iii) its certificate of incorporation and bylaws; upon which certificates each Lender may conclusively rely until it shall have received a further certificate of an authorized officer of Borrower canceling or amending such prior certificate.
Resolutions and Officers Certificates
(b) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, stating that either (i) Borrower or its Subsidiaries have repaid in full and terminated the Existing Credit Facilities concurrently with the effectiveness of the Combined Credit Agreements or (ii) the Existing Credit Facilities have been terminated in full prior to the effectiveness of the Combined Credit Agreements.
Existing Facilities
(c) Opinions of Counsel. The Global Administrative Agent shall have received opinions, dated the Global Effective Date, addressed to the Global Administrative Agent, the other Agents and all Lenders, from Thompson & Knight LLP, counsel to Borrower, in substantially the form attached hereto as .
Exhibit A
(d) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received for its own account, or for the account of each Lender and other Agent, as the case may be, all fees, costs and expenses due and payable pursuant hereto.
Closing Fees and Expenses
 
(e) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, stating that the audited consolidated financial statements of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for fiscal year 2011 (the "2011 Financials") fairly present Borrower's financial condition and results of operations and that prior to the Global Effective Date no material adverse change in the condition or operations of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, from that reflected in the 2011 Financials has occurred and is continuing.
Financial Statements
(f) . In the ordinary course of its business, Borrower conducts an ongoing review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which it attempts to identify and evaluate associated liabilities and costs (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by law or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, stating that after such review Borrower has reasonably concluded that existing Environmental Laws are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or that Borrower has established adequate reserves in respect of any required clean-up or other remediation.
Environmental Warranties
(g) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received the Global Effectiveness Notice.
Global Effectiveness Notice
(h) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received copies of the executed (i) Australian Credit Agreement and the other Australian Loan Documents and (ii) Canadian Credit Agreement and the other Canadian Loan Documents.
Other Combined Credit Agreements
(i) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, stating that no litigation, arbitration, governmental proceeding, Tax claim, dispute or administrative or other proceeding shall be pending or, to the knowledge of Borrower, threatened against Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Litigation
(j) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received such other instruments and documents as any of the Agents or their counsel may have reasonably requested.
Other Documents
The Global Administrative Agent shall notify Borrower, the other Agents and the Lenders of the Global Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to ) at or prior to 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 30, 2012 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time).
Section 10.2
 
Section 4.2. . The obligation of each Lender to fund any Loan which results in an increase in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans under this Agreement on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Banks to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, shall be subject to the satisfaction of each of the conditions precedent set forth in this .
All Loans
Section 4.2
(a) Compliance with Warranties and No Default. Both before and after giving effect to any Borrowing or issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit, the following statements shall be true and correct: (1) the representations and warranties set forth in shall be true and correct with the same effect as if then made (unless stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such earlier date); and (2) no Default or Event of Default shall have then occurred and be continuing.
Article III
(b) Borrowings. The Global Administrative Agent shall have received a Borrowing Request for any Revolving Borrowing, or a Competitive Borrowing Request and a Competitive Bid Accept/Reject Letter for any Competitive Borrowing.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated, all Obligations shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 5.1. . Apache will furnish, or will cause to be furnished, to each Lender and the Global Administrative Agent copies of the following financial statements, reports, notices and information:
Financial Reporting and Notices
(a) within 90 days after the end of each Fiscal Year of Apache, a copy of the audited annual report for such fiscal year for Apache and its Subsidiaries, including therein consolidated balance sheets of Apache and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and consolidated statements of earnings and cash flow of Apache and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, in each case certified (without qualification) by independent public accountants of nationally recognized standing selected by Apache;
(b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of Apache commencing with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2012, unaudited consolidated balance sheets of Apache and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal quarter and consolidated statements of earnings and cash flow of Apache and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal quarter and for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such fiscal quarter, certified by an Authorized Officer of Apache;
(c) together with the financial statements described in (a) and (b), above a compliance certificate, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent, executed by an Authorized Officer of Apache;
Exhibit B
 
(d) within five (5) days after the occurrence of each Default, a statement of an Authorized Officer of Apache setting forth details of such Default and the action which Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto;
(e) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all material public filings, reports and communications from Borrower, and all reports and registration statements which Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries files with the Securities and Exchange Commission or any national securities exchange;
(f) immediately upon becoming aware of the institution of any steps by Borrower or any other Person to terminate any Pension Plan, or the failure to make a required contribution to any Pension Plan if such failure is sufficient to give rise to a Lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA, or the taking of any action with respect to a Pension Plan which would reasonably be expected to result in the requirement that Borrower furnish a bond or other security to the PBGC or such Pension Plan, or the occurrence of any event with respect to any Pension Plan which would reasonably be expected to result in the incurrence by Borrower of any liability, fine or penalty in excess of $150,000,000, or any material increase in the contingent liability of Borrower with respect to any postretirement Welfare Plan benefit, notice thereof; and
(g) such other information respecting the financial condition or operations of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Global Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
(h) Documents required to be delivered pursuant to this may be delivered electronically and shall be deemed to have been so delivered on the date (i) on which Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto, on its website (located on the date hereof at www.apachecorp.com) or (ii) on which such documents are posted on Borrower's behalf on the website of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or on IntraLinks or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender and the Global Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial third-party website or whether sponsored by the Global Administrative Agent); that, Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent of the posting of any such document and the Global Administrative Agent shall in turn give the Lenders notice of such posting; and that, if requested by the Global Administrative Agent, the Compliance Certificate to be delivered under shall also be delivered in a tangible, physical version or in .pdf format.
Section 5.1
provided
provided further
Section 5.1(c)
Section 5.2. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders where noncompliance therewith may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
Compliance with Laws
Section 5.3. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain, preserve, protect and keep valid title to, or valid leasehold interest in, all of its properties and assets, real and personal, tangible and intangible, of any nature whatsoever (including patents, trademarks, trade names, service marks and copyrights), free and clear of all Liens, charges or claims (including infringement claims with respect to patents,
Maintenance of Properties
 
trademarks, copyrights and the like) except as permitted pursuant to and except for imperfections and other burdens of title thereto as do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value thereof or for the use thereof in their businesses (taken as a whole).
Section 7.1
Section 5.4. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain or cause to be maintained with responsible insurance companies (subject to self-insured retentions) insurance with respect to its properties and business against such casualties and contingencies and of such types and in such amounts as is customary in the case of similar businesses.
Insurance
Section 5.5. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep books and records which accurately reflect all of its business affairs and transactions and permit the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents and each Lender through the Global Administrative Agent or any of their respective authorized representatives, during normal business hours and at reasonable intervals, to visit all of its offices, to discuss its financial matters with its officers and to examine (and, at the expense of the Global Administrative Agent or such other Agent or Lender or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, at the expense of Borrower, photocopy extracts from) any of its books or other records.
Books and Records
Section 5.6. . Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, use the proceeds of the Loans and the Letters of Credit for Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' general corporate purposes.
Use of Proceeds
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated, all Obligations shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 6.1. . Apache will not permit its ratio (expressed as a percentage) of (i) the consolidated Debt of Apache and its Subsidiaries to (ii) Capital to be greater than 60% at the end of any fiscal quarter beginning with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2012.
Ratio of Total Debt to Capital
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated, all Obligations shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 7.1. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon the Property of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to secure Indebtedness of Borrower or any other Person except:
Liens
 
(i) Liens on any property or assets owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary existing at the time such property or asset was acquired (or at the time such Person became a Subsidiary); that in the case of the acquisition of a Subsidiary such Lien only encumbers property or assets immediately prior to, or at the time of, the acquisition by Borrower of such Subsidiary;
provided
(ii) purchase money Liens so long as such Liens only encumber property or assets acquired with the proceeds of the purchase money indebtedness incurred in connection with such Lien;
(iii) Liens granted by an Unrestricted Subsidiary on its assets to secure Indebtedness incurred by such Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(iv) Liens on assets of a Restricted Subsidiary securing Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary owing to Borrower or to another Restricted Subsidiary or Liens on assets of an Unrestricted Subsidiary securing Indebtedness of an Unrestricted Subsidiary owing to Borrower, to a Restricted Subsidiary or to another Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(v) Liens existing on the Global Effective Date set forth on ;
Schedule 7.1
(vi) Liens arising under operating agreements;
(vii) Liens reserved in oil, gas and/or mineral leases for bonus rental payments and for compliance with the terms of such leases;
(viii) Liens pursuant to partnership agreements, oil, gas and/or mineral leases, farm-out agreements, division orders, contracts for the sale, delivery, purchase, exchange, or processing of oil, gas and/or other hydrocarbons, unitization and pooling declarations and agreements, operating agreements, development agreements, area of mutual interest agreements, forward sales of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, and other agreements which are customary in the oil, gas and other mineral exploration, development and production business and in the business of processing of gas and gas condensate production for the extraction of products therefrom;
(ix) Liens on the stock or other ownership interests of or in any Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(x) Liens for taxes, assessments or similar charges, incurred in the ordinary course of business, that are not yet due and payable or that are being contested as set forth in ;
Section 3.6
(xi) pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure payment of worker's compensation, or to participate in any fund in connection with worker's compensation, unemployment insurance, old-age pensions or other social security programs;
 
(xii) Liens imposed by mandatory provisions of law such as for mechanics', materialmen's, warehousemen's, carriers', or other like Liens, securing obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business that are not yet due and payable;
(xiii) Liens in renewal or extension of any of the foregoing permitted Liens, so long as limited to the property or assets encumbered and the amount of Indebtedness secured immediately prior to such renewal or extension; and
(xiv) in addition to Liens permitted by clauses (i) through (xiii) above, Liens on property or assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries if the aggregate Indebtedness of all such Persons secured thereby does not exceed five percent (5%) of Borrower's Consolidated Assets; that nothing in this definition shall in and of itself constitute or be deemed to constitute an agreement or acknowledgment by the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender that the Indebtedness subject to or secured by any such Lien ranks (apart from the effect of any Lien included in or inherent in any such Liens) in priority to the Obligations.
provided
Section 7.2. . Apache will not liquidate or dissolve, consolidate with, or merge into or with, any other Person unless (a) Apache is the survivor of such merger or consolidation, and (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would occur after giving effect thereto.
Mergers
Section 7.3. . Apache will not, and will not permit any Additional Borrower or the Canadian Borrower to, sell, transfer, lease, contribute or otherwise convey, or grant options, warrants or other rights with respect to all or substantially all of their respective assets. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prohibit any transfer of any assets from any Borrower to any Subsidiary of such Borrower, from any Subsidiary of a Borrower to such Borrower or from a Subsidiary of a Borrower to another Subsidiary of such Borrower.
Asset Dispositions
Section 7.4. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into, or cause, suffer or permit to exist any arrangement or contract with any of its other Affiliates unless such arrangement or contract or group of arrangements or contracts, as the case may be, are conducted on an arms-length basis; , , that this Section shall not apply to Apache Offshore Investment Partnership, a Delaware general partnership, Apache Offshore Petroleum Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Main Pass 151 Pipeline Company, a Texas general partnership, and Apache 681/682 Joint Venture, a Texas joint venture.
Transactions with Affiliates
provided
however
Section 7.5. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any agreement (excluding this Agreement, or any other Loan Document) limiting the ability of Borrower to amend or otherwise modify this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any agreement which restricts or prohibits the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to make any payments, directly or indirectly, to Borrower by way of dividends, advances, repayments of loans or advances, reimbursements of management and other intercompany charges, expenses and accruals or other returns on investments, or any other agreement or arrangement which restricts the ability of any such Restricted Subsidiary to make any payment, directly or indirectly, to Borrower.
Restrictive Agreements
 
Section 7.6. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, guaranty any Indebtedness not included in the consolidated Debt of Borrower and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate outstanding principal amount at any time exceeding $150,000,000.
Guaranties
Section 8.1. . Each of the following events or occurrences described in this shall constitute an "":
Listing of Events of Default
Section 8.1
Event of Default
(a) . Borrower shall default in the payment or prepayment when due of any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement, or Borrower shall default (and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of five (5) Business Days) in the payment when due of any interest, fee or of any other obligation hereunder.
Non-Payment of Obligations
(b) . Any representation or warranty of Borrower made or deemed to be made hereunder or in any other Loan Document or any other writing or certificate furnished by or on behalf of Borrower to the Global Administrative Agent, any other Agent or any Lender for the purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any such other Loan Document is or shall be false or misleading when made in any material respect.
Breach of Warranty
(c) . Borrower shall default in the due performance and observance of any of its obligations under or under .
Non-Performance of Covenants and Obligations
Section 7.2
Article VI
(d) . Borrower shall default in the due performance and observance of any other agreement contained herein or in any other Loan Document, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given to Borrower by the Global Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders.
Non-Performance of Other Covenants and Obligations
(e) . A default shall occur in the payment when due (subject to any applicable grace period), whether by acceleration or otherwise, of any direct payment obligation of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in any amount in excess of $150,000,000.
Default on Other Indebtedness
(f) . Any of the following events shall occur with respect to any Pension Plan: (a) the termination of a Pension Plan if, as a result of such termination, Borrower or any member of its Controlled Group could be required to make a contribution to such Pension Plan, or would reasonably expect to incur a liability or obligation to such Pension Plan, in excess of $150,000,000; or (b) a contribution failure occurs with respect to any Pension Plan sufficient to give rise to a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA with respect to a liability or obligation in excess of $150,000,000.
Pension Plans
 
(g) . Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall (a) become insolvent or generally fail to pay, or admit in writing its inability or unwillingness to generally pay, debts as they become due; (b) apply for, consent to, or acquiesce in, the appointment of a trustee, receiver, sequestrator or other custodian for Borrower, or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any substantial part of the property of any thereof, or make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; (c) in the absence of such application, consent or acquiescence, permit or suffer to exist the appointment of a trustee, receiver, sequestrator or other custodian for Borrower, or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or for a substantial part of the property of any thereof, and such trustee, receiver, sequestrator or other custodian shall not be discharged within 60 days, that Borrower and each Restricted Subsidiary hereby expressly authorizes the Global Administrative Agent, each other Agent and each Lender to appear in any court conducting any relevant proceeding during such 60-day period to preserve, protect and defend their rights under the Loan Documents; (d) permit or suffer to exist the commencement of any bankruptcy, reorganization, debt arrangement or other case or proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, or any dissolution, winding up or liquidation proceeding, in respect of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and, if any such case or proceeding is not commenced by Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary, such case or proceeding shall be consented to or acquiesced in by Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary or shall result in the entry of an order for relief or shall remain for 60 days undismissed, that Borrower and each Restricted Subsidiary hereby expressly authorizes the Global Administrative Agent and each Lender to appear in any court conducting any such case or proceeding during such 60-day period to preserve, protect and defend their rights under the Loan Documents; or (e) take any corporate or partnership action authorizing, or in furtherance of, any of the foregoing.
Bankruptcy and Insolvency
provided
provided
(h) . Any judgment or order for the payment of money in an amount of $150,000,000 or more in excess of valid and collectible insurance in respect thereof or in excess of an indemnity with respect thereto reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders shall be rendered against Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and either (a) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (b) such judgment shall have become final and non-appealable and shall have remained outstanding for a period of 60 consecutive days.
Judgments
(i) . Any Person or group of Persons (within the meaning of Section 13 or 14 of the Securities Exchange Act) shall acquire beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act) of 33 1/3% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock of Borrower.
Change in Control
(j) . Any "" as defined in the Australian Loan Documents or the Canadian Loan Documents shall occur; that the occurrence of a "" as defined in the Australian Loan Documents or the Canadian Loan Documents shall constitute a Default under this Agreement; that if such "" is cured or waived under the Australian Loan Documents or the Canadian Loan Documents, as applicable, then such "" shall no longer constitute a Default under this Agreement.
Event of Default under other Combined Loan Documents
Event of Default
provided
Default
provided further
Default
Default
 
Section 8.2. . If any Event of Default described in shall occur, the Commitments (if not theretofore terminated) shall automatically terminate and the outstanding principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all other obligations hereunder shall automatically be and become immediately due and payable, without notice or demand. Without limiting the foregoing, the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to exercise any and all other remedies available to them under the Loan Documents and applicable law.
Action if Bankruptcy
Section 8.1(g)
Section 8.3. . If any Event of Default (other than any Event of Default described in ) shall occur for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, and be continuing, the Global Administrative Agent, upon the direction of the Required Lenders, shall by notice to Borrower declare all of the outstanding principal amount of the Loans and all other obligations hereunder to be due and payable and the Commitments (if not theretofore terminated) to be terminated, whereupon the full unpaid amount of such Loans and other obligations shall be and become immediately due and payable, without further notice, demand or presentment, and the Commitments shall terminate. Without limiting the foregoing, the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to exercise any and all other remedies available to them under the Loan Documents and applicable law.
Action if Other Event of Default
Section 8.2
Each of the Lenders and each of the Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints JPMorgan as Global Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A as Global Syndication Agents, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Royal Bank of Canada as Global Documentation Agents, and authorizes each such Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to such Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
Any bank serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent hereunder.
The Agents shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Agents shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing (the use of the term "agent" herein and in the other Loan Documents with reference to the Agents is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law; rather, such term is used merely as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between independent contracting parties), (b) each Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that such Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ), and (c) except as expressly set forth
Section 10.2
 
herein, each Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as such Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. Each Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Each Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to such Agent by Borrower or a Lender, and such Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to such Agent. None of the Persons identified on the facing page of this Agreement as the "" (the ""), the Documentation Agents or the Syndication Agents shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement or any other Combined Loan Document other than, except in the case of the Arrangers, those applicable to all Lenders as such.
Section 10.2
Article IV
Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners
Arrangers
The Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Any Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by such Agent. Any Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of such Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as an Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Global Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Global Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and Borrower. Upon any such resignation, Borrower shall have the right, in consultation with the Combined Required Lenders, to appoint one of the Lenders as a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by Borrower and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Global Administrative Agent
 
gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Global Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Global Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Global Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Global Administrative Agent, and the retiring Global Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by Borrower to a successor Global Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between Borrower and such successor. After the Global Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Global Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Global Administrative Agent.
Section 10.3
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Section 10.1. . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
(a) :
if to Borrower or any Additional Borrower, to
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
Attention: Matthew W. Dundrea
Senior Vice PresidentTreasury and Administration
Telephone: (713) 296-6640
Facsimile: (713) 296-6458
with a copy to:
Assistant Treasurer
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
 
Telephone: (713) 296-6642
Facsimile: (713) 296-6477
and with copy to:
Executive Vice President and General Counsel
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
Telephone: (713) 296-6204
Facsimile: (713) 296-6458
(b) :
if to the Global Administrative Agent, to
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Loan & Agency Services Group
1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Bejaye E. Ilegbodu
Telephone: (713) 750-4147
Facsimile: (713) 427-6307
with a copy to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
707 Travis Street, 12th Floor North
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Debra Hrelja
Telephone: (713) 216-4039
Facsimile: (713) 216-8870
(c) :
if to JPMorgan as an Issuing Bank, to
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Loan & Agency Services Group
1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Bejaye E. Ilegbodu
Telephone: (713) 750-4147
Facsimile: (713) 427-6307
with a copy to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
707 Travis Street, 12th Floor North
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Debra Hrelja
 
Telephone: (713) 216-4039
Facsimile: (713) 216-8870
(d) if to any other Issuing Bank, to it at its address (or telecopy number) provided to the Global Administrative Agent and Borrower or as set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire; and
(e) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) provided to the Global Administrative Agent and Borrower or as set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices and other communications between the Global Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Global Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to unless otherwise agreed by the Global Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender or Issuing Bank. The Global Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
Article II
provided
Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall (i) if received by the recipient on or before 5:00 p.m., New York City time, be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt or (ii) if received by the recipient after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, be deemed to have been given on the day following the date of receipt.
Section 10.2.
Waivers; Amendments.
(a) No failure or delay by the Global Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Global Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective except in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Global Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
(b) Any of the Combined Loan Documents or any provision thereof may be waived, amended or modified pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Borrower and the Combined Required Lenders or by Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent with the consent of the Combined Required Lenders; that the same waiver, amendment or modification is requested by Borrower in connection with each of the Combined
provided
 
Credit Agreements; and that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of (i) the Lenders described in the first proviso of or any Issuing Bank without the prior written consent of each Lender or Issuing Bank affected thereby and (ii) the Global Administrative Agent without the prior written consent of the Global Administrative Agent.
provided further
Section 10.2(c)
(c) Except as provided for in above, neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Borrower and the Required Lenders or by Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender or the Commitments without the written consent of such Lender or each Lender, respectively, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) release any Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender, or (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "", "" or any other provision hereof or thereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or thereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder or thereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Global Administrative Agent or the Issuing Banks hereunder or thereunder without the prior written consent of the Global Administrative Agent or the applicable Issuing Banks, as the case may be; that in the event that any Additional Borrower elects to terminate its status as an Additional Borrower under this Agreement and delivers a properly executed Borrower Termination Notice pursuant to , such termination and release of such Additional Borrower from its Obligations under this Agreement shall require only the consent of the Global Administrative Agent.
Section 10.2(b)
provided
Section 2.18(b)
Section 2.18(c)
Required Lenders
Combined Required Lenders
provided further
provided further
Section 2.22(c)
Section 10.3.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(a) Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Arrangers and the Agents, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Agents, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by any Issuing Bank in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder, and (iii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents or any Lender, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans, Letters of Credit or this Agreement.
 
(b) Borrower shall indemnify the Agents, the Arrangers, each Issuing Bank and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an ""), WHETHER OR NOT RELATED TO ANY NEGLIGENCE OF THE INDEMNITEE, against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by any Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (i) resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (ii) arise in connection with any issue in litigation commenced by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against any Indemnitee for which a final judgment is entered in favor of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against such Indemnitee.
Indemnitee
provided
(c) To the extent that Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Global Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Global Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Global Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank, in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, (i) Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, and (ii) Agents and Lenders shall not assert, and hereby waive, any claim against Borrower, in each case on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby (including, without limitation, any Loan Document), the Transactions or any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof, except for any such claim arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or the Borrower, as applicable; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this sentence shall limit the Borrower's indemnity obligations with respect to claims asserted by Persons (other than the Agents and the Lenders) to the extent set forth in this .
provided
Section 10.3
 
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than thirty (30) days after written demand therefor.
Section 10.4.
Successors and Assigns.
(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by Borrower without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Global Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b) Any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that (i) Apache must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (ii) the Global Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Banks must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (iii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Global Administrative Agent) shall be in increments of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 unless each of Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent otherwise consent, (iv) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, except that this clause (iv) shall not apply to rights in respect of outstanding Competitive Loans, (v) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Global Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, and (vi) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Global Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; and that any consent of Apache otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under has occurred and is continuing. Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall
provided
provided further
Section 8.1
 
cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , , and ). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section.
Section 2.15
Section 2.16
Section 2.17
Section 2.18
Section 2.20
Section 10.3
(c) The Global Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and Borrower, the Global Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by Borrower, any Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Global Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register and will provide prompt written notice to Borrower of the effectiveness of such Assignment. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(e) Any Lender may, without the consent of Borrower or the Global Administrative Agent or any Issuing Bank, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) Borrower, the Global Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and (iv) if such Participant is not a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, such Lender shall have given notice to Borrower of the name of the Participant and the amount of such participation. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
Section 10.2(c)
Section 2.15
Section 2.16
Section 2.17
Section 10.8
Section 2.18(c)
 
(f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under , and than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless Borrower shall expressly agree otherwise in writing. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Section 2.15
Section 2.16
Section 2.17
Section 2.17
Section 2.17(e)
(g) Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Loans, Letters of Credit or its other obligations under this Agreement) except to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to establish that such Commitment, Loan, or other obligation is in registered form under Section 5f.103-1(c) of the United States Treasury Regulations.
Participant Register
provided
(h) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender to a Federal Reserve Bank or, in the case of a Lender organized in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, a comparable Person, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(i) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no assignments or participations shall be made to any Borrower or any of their respective Affiliates or Subsidiaries, or to any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause.
Section 10.5. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Global Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of
Survival
 
, , , , and and shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Section 2.15
Section 2.16
Section 2.17
Section 2.18
Section 2.20
Section 10.3
Article IX
Section 10.6. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Global Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Global Administrative Agent and when the Global Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.1
Section 10.7. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
Section 10.8. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the Obligations of Borrower shall have been accelerated, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower against any of and all the obligations of each Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
Section 10.9.
GOVERNING LAW; JURISDICTION; CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS.
(a) THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
(b) BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK
 
COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE OR, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE AGENTS, THE ISSUING BANK OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AGAINST BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c) BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT IT MAY LEGALLY AND EFFECTIVELY DO SO, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN THE FIRST SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH (b) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
(d) EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY REGISTERED MAIL, POSTAGE PREPAID, OR BY PERSONAL SERVICE WITHIN OR WITHOUT THE STATE OF NEW YORK. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW.
Section 10.10. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
Section 10.11. . Each of the Agents, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory or self-regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or
Confidentiality
 
Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) to any rating agency to the extent required by it, provided that, prior to any disclosure, such rating agency shall undertake in writing to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to the Borrowers received by it from any Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, (h) with the consent of Borrower or (i) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section by any Person or (ii) becomes available to any Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than Borrower or any Person obligated to maintain the confidentiality of such Information. Prior to disclosing any Information under clause (c) above, the Agent, the Issuing Bank or Lender required or asked to make such disclosure shall make a good faith effort to give Borrower prior notice of such proposed disclosure to permit Borrower to attempt to obtain a protective order or other appropriate injunctive relief. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from Borrower relating to Borrower or its business, other than any publicly available information and such information that is available to any Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure by Borrower; that, in the case of information received from Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
Section 10.12. . It is the intention of the parties hereto to conform strictly to applicable interest, usury and criminal laws and, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the obligations of Borrower to a Lender or any Agent under this Agreement shall be subject to the limitation that payments of interest shall not be required to the extent that receipt thereof would be contrary to provisions of law applicable to such Lender or Agent limiting rates of interest which may be charged or collected by such Lender or Agent. Accordingly, if the transactions contemplated hereby would be illegal, unenforceable, usurious or criminal under laws applicable to a Lender or Agent (including the laws of any jurisdiction whose laws may be mandatorily applicable to such Lender or Agent notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document but subject to hereof) then, in that event, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, it is agreed as follows:
Interest Rate Limitation
Section 2.13
(i) the provisions of this Section shall govern and control;
(ii) the aggregate of all consideration which constitutes interest under applicable law that is contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received under this Agreement, or under any of the other aforesaid agreements or otherwise in connection with this Agreement by such Lender or Agent shall under no circumstances exceed the maximum amount of interest allowed by applicable law (such maximum lawful interest rate, if any, with respect to each Lender and the Agent herein called the ""), and any excess shall be cancelled automatically and if theretofore paid shall be credited to Borrower by such Lender or Agent (or, if such consideration shall have been paid in full, such excess refunded to Borrower);
Highest Lawful Rate
 
(iii) all sums paid, or agreed to be paid, to such Lender or Agent for the use, forbearance and detention of the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender or Agent hereunder or under any Loan Document shall, to the extent permitted by laws applicable to such Lender or Agent, as the case may be, be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread throughout the full term of such indebtedness until payment in full so that the actual rate of interest is uniform throughout the full term thereof;
(iv) if at any time the interest provided pursuant to this Section or any other clause of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, together with any other fees or compensation payable pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document and deemed interest under laws applicable to such Lender or Agent, exceeds that amount which would have accrued at the Highest Lawful Rate, the amount of interest and any such fees or compensation to accrue to such Lender or Agent pursuant to this Agreement shall be limited, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, to that amount which would have accrued at the Highest Lawful Rate, but any subsequent reductions, as applicable, shall not reduce the interest to accrue to such Lender or Agent pursuant to this Agreement below the Highest Lawful Rate until the total amount of interest accrued pursuant to this Agreement or such other Loan Document, as the case may be, and such fees or compensation deemed to be interest equals the amount of interest which would have accrued to such Lender or Agent if a varying rate per annum equal to the interest provided pursuant to any other relevant Section hereof (other than this Section), as applicable, had at all times been in effect, plus the amount of fees which would have been received but for the effect of this Section; and
(v) with the intent that the rate of interest herein shall at all times be lawful, and if the receipt of any funds owing hereunder or under any other agreement related hereto (including any of the other Loan Documents) by such Lender or Agent would cause such Lender to charge Borrower a criminal rate of interest, the Lenders and the Agents agree that they will not require the payment or receipt thereof or a portion thereof which would cause a criminal rate of interest to be charged by such Lender or Agent, as applicable, and if received such affected Lender or Agent will return such funds to Borrower so that the rate of interest paid by Borrower shall not exceed a criminal rate of interest from the date this Agreement was entered into.
Section 10.13. . Each Borrower has determined that it is in its best interest and in pursuance of its legitimate business purposes to induce the Lenders to extend credit to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement. Each Borrower acknowledges and represents that the availability of the Commitments to each of the Borrowers benefits each Borrower individually and that the Loans made will be for and inure to the benefit of each of the Borrowers individually and as a group. Accordingly, Apache shall be jointly and severally liable (as a principal and not as a surety, guarantor or other accommodation party) for each and every representation, warranty, covenant and obligation to be performed by the Borrowers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and Apache acknowledges that in extending the credit provided herein the Agents and the Lenders are relying upon the fact that the Obligations of each Borrower hereunder are the joint and several obligations of Apache. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each Borrower, other than Apache, shall be severally, and not jointly, liable for all Obligations incurred by such Borrower under this
Joint and Several Obligations
 
Agreement. The invalidity, unenforceability or illegality of this Agreement or any other Loan Document as to one Borrower or the release by the Agents or the Lenders of a Borrower hereunder or thereunder shall not affect the Obligations of the other Borrowers under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, all of which shall otherwise remain valid and legally binding obligations of the other Borrowers.
Section 10.14. . Each Lender that is subject to the USA Patriot Act and the Global Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Borrower that, pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Borrower, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Global Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Borrower in accordance with the USA Patriot Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Section 10.15. . Each Agent, each Lender and their Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this paragraph, the ""), may have economic interests that conflict with those of the Borrower and/or its Affiliates. Each Borrower agrees that nothing in the Loan Documents will be deemed to create an advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary duty between any Lender, on the one hand, and such Borrower or its Affiliates, on the other. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that (i) the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents (including the exercise of rights and remedies thereunder) are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Lenders, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other, and (ii) in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents, (x) no Lender has assumed an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of any Borrower or its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby (or the exercise of rights or remedies with respect thereto) (irrespective of whether any Lender has advised, is currently advising or will advise any Borrower or its Affiliates on other matters) or any other obligation to any Borrower except the obligations expressly set forth in the Loan Documents and (y) each Agent and Lender is acting solely as principal and not as the agent or fiduciary of any Borrower or its Affiliates. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that it has consulted its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate and that it is responsible for making its own independent judgment with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents.
NO FIDUCIARY DUTY
Lenders
Section 10.16. . THIS WRITTEN AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS AMONG THE PARTIES.
NO ORAL AGREEMENTS
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS:
 
 
Exhibit 10.2
THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, dated as of June 4, 2012, is among ., a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada ("" and together with each other Person that becomes an Additional Borrower pursuant to , the ""), the (as defined below) party hereto, , as Global Administrative Agent, , as Canadian Administrative Agent, and, as Global Syndication Agents, and and , as Global Documentation Agents.
APACHE CANADA LTD
Apache Canada
Section 2.22
Borrower
LENDERS
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
ROYAL BANK OF CANADA
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
CITIBANK, N.A.
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
ROYAL BANK OF CANADA
Borrower, Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent, and the other Agents party hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"" is defined in .
2011 Financials
Section 4.1(e)
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" is defined in .
Accepting Lenders
Section 2.7(c)
"" means any Person which is a Borrower under this Agreement pursuant to .
Additional Borrower
Section 2.22
"" is defined in .
Additional Borrower Counterpart
Section 2.22
"" is defined in .
Additional Borrower Termination Notice
Section 2.22(c)
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Global Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" is defined in .
Affected Loan
Section 2.18(f)
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means each of the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Syndication Agents and the Global Documentation Agents.
Agents
"" is defined in .
Agreed Currency
Section 2.20(a)
"" means this Credit Agreement, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Agreement
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the U.S. Base Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus
Alternate Base Rate
 1
/
2
of 1%, and (c) the LIBO Rate in effect on such day for a one-month interest period plus 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the U.S. Base Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the U.S. Base Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively. If for any reason the Canadian Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive and binding, absent manifest error) that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the LIBO Rate for any reason, including, without limitation, the inability or failure of the Canadian Administrative Agent to obtain sufficient bids or publications in accordance with the terms hereof, the Alternate Base Rate shall be the U.S. Base Rate until the Federal Funds Effective Rate and the LIBO Rate can be so determined.
"" is defined in the preamble.
Apache Canada
"" means Apache Energy Limited (ACN 009 301 964), a company incorporated in Australia and registered in the State of Western Australia, Australia.
Apache Energy Limited
"" means, for each Lender and for each Type of Loan, such office of such Lender (or of an Affiliate of such Lender) as such Lender may from time to time specify in writing to the Canadian Administrative Agent and Borrower as the office by which its Loans of such Type are to be made and/or issued and maintained.
Applicable Lending Office
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means (a) at any time the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P, and Fitch for the Index Debt are equivalent ratings, the level set forth in the chart below under the heading "" (a "") opposite the ratings under the headings "" and "", and (b) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P and Fitch for the Index Debt shall fall within different Levels, the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the highest two ratings, unless the highest two ratings shall fall within different Levels in which case the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the lower of the highest two ratings, , , that for purposes of the foregoing, (i) "" means a rating equal to or more favorable than; "" means a rating equal to or less favorable than; ">" means a rating greater than; "<" means a rating less than; (ii) if Moody's, S&P, or Fitch shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the penultimate sentence appearing before the table below), then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the higher of the two existing ratings; (iii) if only one of Moody's, S&P, and Fitch shall have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the penultimate sentence of this definition), then the
Applicable Rating Level
Applicable Rating Level
Level
Moody's
S&P/Fitch
provided
however
 
Applicable Rating Level shall be the rating that is one Level below the rating established by such party; (iv) if there is no rating for the Index Debt from Moody's, S&P, and Fitch, then the Applicable Rating Level shall equal Level V; and (v) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P and Fitch for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rating Level shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch shall change, or if any such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rating Level shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation. Changes in the Applicable Rating Level will occur automatically without prior notice.
 
For example, if the Moody's rating is A3, the S&P rating is BBB+, and the Fitch rating is A, Level III shall apply.
"" is defined in .
Arrangers
Article IX
"" means an assignment and acceptance entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Canadian Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit D or any other form approved by the Canadian Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Acceptance
Section 10.4
"" means Citisecurities Limited (ABN 51 008 489 610) in its capacity as Australian administrative agent for the lenders party to the Australian Credit Agreement and any successor thereto.
Australian Administrative Agent
"" means Apache Energy Limited and each other Person that becomes a borrower under the Australian Credit Agreement.
Australian Borrower
"" means that certain Syndicated Facility Agreement of even date herewith among the Australian Borrower, the Australian Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and the other agents party thereto, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Australian Credit Agreement
 
"" means the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of the Australian Credit Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Australian Lenders
"" means the Australian Credit Agreement, any notes, any guaranties, any assignment agreements, and the agreement with respect to fees, together with all exhibits, schedules and attachments thereto, and all other agreements, documents, certificates, financing statements and instruments from time to time executed and delivered pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing.
Australian Loan Documents
"" means, with respect to any Borrower, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and Chief Corporate Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of such Borrower, and any officer or employee of such Borrower specified as such to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent in writing by any of the aforementioned officers of such Borrower, or, with respect to Parent, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the President and Chief Corporate Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Senior Vice PresidentTreasury and Administration of Parent, and any officer or employee of Parent specified as such to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent in writing by any of the aforementioned officers of the Parent.
Authorized Officer
"" means the period from and including the Global Effective Date to but excluding the Maturity Date.
Availability Period
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or consented to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, , , that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within Canada or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
provided
provided
further
"" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "", in either case, based upon the Applicable Rating Level, applicable on such date:
Base Rate Margin
Base Rate Margin
 
Each change in the Base Rate Margin shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. Changes in the Base Rate Margin will occur automatically without prior notice.
"" means Apache Canada Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada, and each other Person that becomes an Additional Borrower pursuant to .
Borrower
Section 2.22
"" means Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
"" means a request by Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with , in substantially the form of Exhibit E or any other form approved by the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent.
Borrowing Request
Section 2.3
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in Calgary, Alberta, Toronto, Ontario and New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market.
Business Day
provided
Business Day
"" means Royal Bank of Canada in its capacity as Canadian administrative agent for the lenders party to the Canadian Credit Agreement and any successor thereto.
Canadian Administrative Agent
"" means the consolidated shareholder's equity of Parent and its Subsidiaries plus the consolidated Debt of Parent and its Subsidiaries.
Capital
"" means, with respect to a Person, any lease of property by such Person as lessee which would be capitalized on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Capitalized Lease
"" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C.  9601, et. seq., as amended from time to time.
CERCLA
"" means a certificate of Parent and Borrower, executed by an Authorized Officer and delivered to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent, in a form acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent, which requests an extension of the then scheduled Maturity Date pursuant to .
Certificate of Extension
Section 2.7
 
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption of any law, rule, regulation or treaty by any Governmental Authority, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of , by any Applicable Lending Office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement; that, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all rules, guidelines, or directives concerning capital adequacy or liquidity promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or Canadian or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "" to the extent enacted, adopted, promulgated or issued by any Governmental Authority or otherwise having the force of law, regardless of the date so enacted, adopted, promulgated or issued.
Change in Law
Section 2.17(b)
provided
Change in Law
"" has the meaning set forth in .
CI Lender
Section 2.23(a)
"" means the commitment of each Combined Lender under the Combined Credit Agreements, as such commitment may be reduced, increased or terminated from time to time pursuant to the Combined Loan Documents and, if any such commitments are no longer in effect under any Combined Credit Agreement, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the outstanding loans for which the applicable commitment is no longer in effect under such Combined Credit Agreement. The initial amount of each Combined Lender's Commitment is set forth on to the applicable Combined Credit Agreement, or in a Assignment and Acceptance (as defined in this Agreement and the U.S. Credit Agreement) or in a Substitution Certificate (as defined in the Australian Credit Agreement) pursuant to which such Combined Lender shall have assumed its Combined Commitment, as applicable, or in an applicable Notice of Commitment Increase. The initial aggregate amount of the Combined Lenders' Combined Commitments is $2,300,000,000.
Combined Commitments
Schedule 2.1
"" means this Agreement, the Australian Credit Agreement and the U.S. Credit Agreement.
Combined Credit Agreements
"" means the Lenders hereunder, the Australian Lenders and the U.S. Lenders.
Combined Lenders
"" means the Loan Documents, the Australian Loan Documents and the U.S. Loan Documents.
Combined Loan Documents
"" means the loans made by the Combined Lenders to Borrower, U.S. Borrower and Australian Borrower pursuant to the Combined Loan Documents.
Combined Loans
"" means Combined Lenders having in the aggregate 51% of the aggregate total Combined Commitments under the Combined Loan Documents.
Combined Required Lenders
 
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Loans in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding up to but not exceeding the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on hereto, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to , (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to or pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to , (c) increased from time to time pursuant to , and (d) terminated pursuant to , or . The amount of the Commitment represents such Lender's maximum Credit Exposure hereunder. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on , or in the Assignment and Acceptance pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable, or in an applicable Notice of Commitment Increase. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $300,000,000.
Commitment
Schedule 2.1
Section 2.9
Section 2.7
Section 10.4
Section 2.23
Sections 4.1
8.2
8.3
Schedule 2.1
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Commitment Increase
Section 2.23(a)
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Commitment Increase Effective Date
Section 2.23(b)
"" means the total assets of the Parent and its subsidiaries which would be shown as assets on a consolidated balance sheet of Parent and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Assets
"" means (i) the consolidated shareholder's equity of Parent and its Subsidiaries (determined in accordance with GAAP), less (ii) the amount of consolidated intangible assets of Parent and its Subsidiaries, plus (iii) the aggregate amount of any non-cash write downs, on a consolidated basis, by Parent and its Subsidiaries during the term hereof.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Loans at such time.
Credit Exposure
"" means the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Credit Party
"" of any Person means indebtedness, including capital leases, shown as debt on a consolidated balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Debt
"" is defined in .
Declining Lenders
Section 2.7(c)
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means, as reasonably determined by the Global Administrative Agent in consultation with Borrower, any Lender that (a) has failed, within two (2) Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, to (i) fund any portion of its Loans or (ii) pay over to any Credit Party any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Global Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) has notified the Borrower or any Credit Party in writing, or has made a public statement to the effect, that it does not intend or expect to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) to funding a loan under this Agreement cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by the Global Administrative Agent, acting in good faith, to confirm in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent that it will comply with its obligations to fund prospective Loans under this Agreement, that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon (i) the Global Administrative Agent's receipt of such confirmation, and (ii) compliance in full by such Lender with its funding obligations under this Agreement as of the date of such certification (subject to any exception to funding set forth in clause (a) above), or (d) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event.
Defaulting Lender
provided
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means all applicable federal, state, provincial, territorial or local statutes, laws, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, decrees, judgments, injunctions, legally binding notices or legally binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the protection of the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters relating to the exposure of Hazardous Material (including, for example and without limitation, the Environmental Protection and Enhancement Act (Alberta) and the Canadian Environmental Protection Act).
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the LIBO Rate.
Eurodollar
"" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "", in either case, based upon the Applicable Rating Level, applicable on such date:
Eurodollar Margin
Eurodollar Margin
 
Each change in the Eurodollar Margin shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. Changes in the Eurodollar Margin will occur automatically without prior notice.
"" is defined in .
Event of Default
Article VIII
"" means, with respect to any Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder, (a) income, capital or franchise Taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income or capital, in each case, (i) by the federal, or any provincial or territorial, government of Canada (or any political subdivision thereof), or by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its Applicable Lending Office is located, or (ii) as the result of any present or former connection between such recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax other than any connection arising from such recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document or sold or assigned an interest in any Loan or Loan Document, (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by the federal, or any provincial or territorial, government of Canada, the United States or any of its political subdivisions, or any similar Tax imposed by any other jurisdiction described in clause (a) above, and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by Borrower under ), any withholding Tax that is imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new Applicable Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Applicable Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from Borrower with respect to such withholding Tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.19(b)
Section 2.17(e)
Section 2.17(a)
"" means (a) (i) that certain Credit Agreement [U.S. Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among U.S. Borrower and the lenders and agents party thereto; (ii) that certain Credit Agreement [Canadian Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache Canada and the lenders and agents party thereto; and (iii) that certain Credit Agreement [Australian Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache Energy Limited and the lenders and agents party thereto, and (b) that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 9, 2006, among U.S. Borrower and the lenders and agents party thereto.
Existing Credit Facilities
 
"" is defined in .
Facility Fee
Section 2.12(a)
"" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "", based upon the Applicable Rating Level applicable on such date:
Facility Fee Rate
Facility Fee Rate
 
Each change in the Facility Fee Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. Changes in the Facility Fee Rate will occur automatically without prior notice.
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Global Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means Fitch, Inc. and any affiliate or successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency in the United States.
Fitch
"" means any Lender that is a non-resident of Canada for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada). For purposes of this definition, Canada and each province and territory thereof shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent with the most recent financial statements of Parent, Borrower and their Subsidiaries delivered to the Lenders pursuant to the Combined Loan Documents.
GAAP
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as global administrative agent for the Combined Lenders, and its successors.
Global Administrative Agent
 
"" means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Royal Bank of Canada, each in its capacity as documentation agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Global Documentation Agents
"" means a date agreed upon by Parent, Borrower, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent as the date on which the conditions specified in of each Combined Credit Agreement are satisfied (or waived in accordance with of each Combined Credit Agreement).
Global Effective Date
Section 4.1
Section 10.2
"" means a notice and certificate of Parent and Borrower properly executed by an Authorized Officer of Parent and Borrower, respectively, addressed to the Combined Lenders and delivered to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent, in sufficient number of counterparts to provide one for each such lender and each agent under each Combined Credit Agreement, whereby Parent certifies satisfaction of all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness under of each Combined Credit Agreement.
Global Effectiveness Notice
Section 4.1
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., each in its capacity as syndication agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Global Syndication Agents
"" means the governments of Canada and the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state, provincial, territorial or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" means that certain Guaranty, dated as of June 4, 2012, by Parent in favor of the Lenders and the other Lender Parties (as defined therein), in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent, as such Guaranty may from time to time be amended, supplemented, restated, reaffirmed or otherwise modified.
Guaranty
Exhibit F
"" means (a) any "hazardous substance," as defined by CERCLA; (b) any "hazardous waste," as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; or (c) any pollutant or contaminant or hazardous, dangerous or toxic chemical, material or substance within the meaning of any other Environmental Law.
Hazardous Material
"" is defined in .
Highest Lawful Rate
Section 10.12
"" of any Person means all (i) Debt, and (ii) guaranties or other contingent obligations in respect of the Debt of any other Person.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, non-credit enhanced, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of Parent that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
 
"" means a request by Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with , in substantially the form of Exhibit E or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent.
Interest Election Request
Section 2.8
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan, the last day of each March, June, September and December, and (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three (3) months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three (3) months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period.
Interest Payment Date
"" means the period commencing on the date of any Eurodollar Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day, or, with the consent of the Canadian Administrative Agent, such other day, in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender, nine or twelve months) thereafter, in each case, as Borrower may elect, , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan
"" is defined in .
Judgment Currency
Section 2.20(b)
"" means the Persons listed on and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Acceptance.
Lenders
Schedule 2.1
"" means (a) the rate of interest per annum, expressed on the basis of a year of 360 days, determined by the Canadian Administrative Agent, which is equal to the offered rate that appears on the page of the Reuters LIBOR01 screen (or any successor thereto as may be selected by the Canadian Administrative Agent) that displays an average British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in dollars with a term equivalent to such Interest Period, determined as of approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, or (b) if the rates referenced in the preceding subsection (a) are not available, the rate per annum determined by the Canadian Administrative Agent as the rate of interest, expressed on a basis of 360 days at which deposits in dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the LIBO Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by the Canadian Administrative Agent and with a term and amount comparable to such Interest Period and principal amount of such LIBO Rate Loan as would be offered by the Canadian Administrative Agent's London Branch to major banks in the offshore dollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge, or security interest of any kind, granted or created to secure Indebtedness; , , that, with respect to any prohibitions of Liens on Property, the following transactions shall not be deemed to create a Lien to secure Indebtedness; (i) production payments and (ii) liens required by statute and created in favor of Canadian governmental entities to secure partial, progress, advance, or other payments intended to be used primarily in connection with air or water pollution control.
Lien
provided
however
"" means any loan made by the Lenders to Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loan
"" means this Agreement, the Guaranty, any Borrowing Request, any Interest Election Request, any Certificate of Extension, any Assignment and Acceptance, any Additional Borrower Counterpart, any Additional Borrower Termination Notice, any Notice of Commitment Increase, any election notice, the agreement with respect to fees described in , and each other agreement, document or instrument delivered by Borrower or any other Person in connection with this Agreement, as such may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Loan Document
Section 2.12(b)
"" means, as to any matter, that such matter could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the assets, business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) of Parent and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. No matter shall be considered to result, or be expected to result, in a Material Adverse Effect unless such matter causes Parent and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to suffer a loss or incur a cost equal to at least ten percent (10%) of Parent's Consolidated Tangible Net Worth.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means the earliest of:
Maturity Date
(a) the Original Maturity Date, or such other later date as may result from any extension requested by Borrower and Parent and consented to by some or all of the Lenders pursuant to .
Section 2.7
(b) the date on which the Commitments are terminated in full or reduced to zero pursuant to ; and
Section 2.9
(c) the date on which the Commitments otherwise are terminated in full and reduced to zero pursuant to the terms of , or .
Section 4.1
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Upon the occurrence of any event described in clause (b) or (c), the Commitments shall terminate automatically and without any further action.
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency in the United States.
Moody's
 
"" means the amount equal to the product of a CI Lender's increased Commitment or a CI Lender's new Commitment (as applicable) represented as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments after giving effect to the Commitment Increase, times the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Loans immediately prior to giving effect to the Commitment Increase, if any, as of a Commitment Increase Effective Date (without regard to any increase in the aggregate principal amount of Loans as a result of borrowings made after giving effect to the Commitment Increase on such Commitment Increase Effective Date).
New Funds Amount
"" is defined in .
Non-Defaulting Lender
Section 2.18(f)
"" means a notice from the CI Lender in accordance with , in substantially the form of .
Notice of Commitment Increase
Section 2.23
Exhibit I
"" means, at any time, the sum of (i) the outstanding principal amount of any Loans plus (ii) all accrued and unpaid interest and Facility Fees and other fees due pursuant to plus (iii) all other obligations of Borrower or any Subsidiary to any Lender or any Agent, whether or not contingent, arising under or in connection with any of the Loan Documents.
Obligations
Section 2.12
"" means June 4, 2017.
Original Maturity Date
"" is defined in .
Other Currency
Section 2.20(a)
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
"" means Apache Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Parent
"" is defined in .
Participant Register
Section 10.4(g)
"" is defined in .
Participants
Section 10.4(e)
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, unlimited liability company, joint venture, partnership, firm, association, trust, government, governmental agency or any other entity, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.
Person
"" means (i) any property owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in property, which is considered by Borrower to be capable of producing oil, gas, or minerals in commercial quantities, (ii) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in any refinery, processing or manufacturing plant owned or leased by Borrower or any manufacturing plant owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary, (iii) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in all present and future oil, gas, other liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, and other minerals now or hereafter produced from any other Property or to which Borrower or any Subsidiary may be entitled as a result of its ownership of any Property, and (iv) all real and personal assets owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary used in the drilling, gathering, processing, transportation, or marketing of any oil, gas, and
Property
 
other hydrocarbons or minerals, except (a) any such real or personal assets related thereto employed in transportation, distribution or marketing or (b) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in, any refinery, processing or manufacturing plant, or portion thereof, which property described in clauses (a) or (b), in the opinion of the board of directors of Borrower, is not a principal plant or principal facility in relation to the activities of Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
"" means each then existing Lender immediately prior to giving effect to the Commitment Increase that does not increase its respective Commitment as a result of the Commitment Increase and whose relative percentage of the Commitments shall be reduced after giving effect to such Commitment Increase.
Reducing Percentage Lender
"" means the amount by which a Reducing Percentage Lender's outstanding Loans decrease as of a Commitment Increase Effective Date (without regard to the effect of any borrowings made on such Commitment Increase Effective Date after giving effect to the Commitment Increase).
Reduction Amount
"" is defined in .
Register
Section 10.4
"" means any of Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulations or official interpretations of said Board or any successor Person relating to the extension of credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System or any successor Person.
Regulation U
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" is defined in .
Replacement Lenders
Section 2.7(c)(ii)
"" means Lenders having in the aggregate 51% of the aggregate total Commitments, or, if the Commitments have been terminated, Lenders holding 51% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the outstanding Obligations.
Required Lenders
"" means the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 690, ., as amended from time to time.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
et seq
"" means any Subsidiary of Borrower or Parent that owns any asset representing or consisting of an entitlement to production from, or other interest in, reserves of oil, gas or other minerals in place located in the United States or Canada, including, without limitation, with respect to the Parent, the Borrower, or is otherwise designated as such by Parent in writing to the Global Administrative Agent.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency.
S&P
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other similar entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or other equity) having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or similar governing body or management of such corporation, partnership, limited liability company or entity (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock (or other equity) or any other class or classes of equity of such corporation, partnership, limited liability company or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person.
subsidiary
"" means any subsidiary of Borrower or Parent; , , that in all events the following Persons shall not be deemed to be Subsidiaries of the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries: Apache Offshore Investment Partnership, a Delaware general partnership, Apache Offshore Petroleum Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Main Pass 151 Pipeline Company, a Texas general partnership, and Apache 681/682 Joint Venture, a Texas joint venture.
Subsidiary
provided
however
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the LIBO Rate (a Eurodollar Loan) or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" or "" means the United States of America, its fifty states and the District of Columbia.
United States
U.S.
"" means any Subsidiary of Borrower that is not a Restricted Subsidiary.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
"" means the rate of interest per annum announced from time to time by the Canadian Administrative Agent as the reference rate used by it for determining interest rates charged on U.S. Dollar commercial loans made in Canada; each change in the U.S. Base Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is announced as being effective.
U.S. Base Rate
"" means Apache Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and each other Person that becomes a borrower under the U.S. Credit Agreement.
U.S. Borrower
"" means that certain Credit Agreement of even date herewith among the U.S. Borrower, the U.S. Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, and the other agents party thereto, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
U.S. Credit Agreement
 
"" means the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of the U.S. Credit Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
U.S. Lenders
"" means the U.S. Credit Agreement, any notes, any assignment agreements, and the agreement with respect to fees, together with all exhibits, schedules and attachments thereto, and all other agreements, documents, certificates, financing statements and instruments from time to time executed and delivered pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing.
U.S. Loan Documents
"" means the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001).
USA Patriot Act
Section 1.2. . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a ""). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Type (e.g., a "").
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
Eurodollar Loan
Eurodollar Borrowing
Section 1.3. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
Section 1.4. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if Borrower notifies the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent that Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent notify Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
 
Section 2.1. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Loans in U.S. Dollars to Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount up to, but not to exceed, the amount of such Lender's Commitment, that such Loans will not result in (a) such Lender's Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the total Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Subject to the conditions set forth herein, Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Loans. Apache Canada shall be jointly and severally liable for all Obligations. Any Additional Borrower shall be severally liable for all Obligations which it incurs as further set forth in .
Commitments
provided
Section 10.13
Section 2.2.
Loans and Borrowings.
(a) Each Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
provided
(b) Subject to , each Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.14
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (including any continuation or conversion of existing Loans made in connection therewith). At the time that each ABR Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (including any continuation or conversion of existing Loans made in connection therewith); that an ABR Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments. Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of ten (10) Eurodollar Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
Section 2.3. . To request a Borrowing, Borrower shall notify the Canadian Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., Toronto time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m, Toronto time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be
Requests for Borrowings
 
irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Canadian Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Canadian Administrative Agent and signed by Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Section 2.2
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "".
Interest Period
If no election as to the Type of Borrowing is specified, then the requested Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Borrowing, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Canadian Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
Section 2.4.
[Intentionally omitted].
Section 2.5.
[Intentionally omitted].
Section 2.6.
Funding of Borrowings.
(a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 1:00 p.m., Toronto time, to the account of the Canadian Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Canadian Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of Borrower designated by Borrower from time to time in a written notice to the Canadian Administrative Agent executed by (i) two Authorized Officers of Apache Canada and (ii) with respect to a Loan to an Additional Borrower, two Authorized Officers of such Additional Borrower.
(b) Unless the Canadian Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Canadian Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Canadian Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on the requested date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Canadian Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and Borrower severally agree to pay to the Canadian Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for
 
each day from and including the date such amount is made available to Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Canadian Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate or a rate determined by the Canadian Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules in Canada on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Loans made in such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Canadian Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
Section 2.7.
Extension of Maturity Date and of Commitments.
(a) Subject to the other provisions of this Agreement and that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the total Commitments shall be effective for an initial period from the Global Effective Date to the Original Maturity Date; that the applicable Maturity Date, and concomitantly the total Commitments, may be extended (but not more than twice during the life of this Agreement) for successive one year periods expiring on the date which is one year from the then scheduled Maturity Date. If Parent and Borrower shall request in a Certificate of Extension delivered to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent at least 45 days but not more than 90 days prior to a date which is an anniversary of the Global Effective Date that the Maturity Date be extended for one year from the then scheduled Maturity Date, then the Canadian Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request and each Lender shall notify the Canadian Administrative Agent, no later than 30 days prior to such anniversary of the Global Effective Date, whether such Lender, in the exercise of its sole discretion, will extend the Maturity Date for such one year period. Any Lender which shall not timely notify the Canadian Administrative Agent whether it will extend the Maturity Date shall be deemed to not have agreed to extend the Maturity Date. No Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to extend the Maturity Date. Any agreement to extend the Maturity Date by any Lender shall be irrevocable, except as provided in .
provided
provided
Section 2.7(c)
(b) If all Lenders notify the Canadian Administrative Agent pursuant to of their agreement to extend the Maturity Date, then the Canadian Administrative Agent shall so notify the Global Administrative Agent, each Lender and Borrower, and such extension shall be effective without other or further action by any party hereto for such additional one year period.
Section 2.7(a)
(c) If Lenders constituting at least the Required Lenders approve the extension of the then scheduled Maturity Date (such Lenders agreeing to extend the Maturity Date herein called the "") and if one or more Lenders shall notify, or be deemed to notify, the Canadian Administrative Agent pursuant to that they will not extend the then scheduled Maturity Date (such Lenders herein called the ""), then (A) the Canadian Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify Borrower and the Accepting Lenders, (B) the Accepting Lenders shall, upon Borrower's election to extend the then scheduled Maturity Date in accordance with clause (i) or (ii) below, extend the then scheduled Maturity Date and (C) Borrower shall, pursuant to a notice delivered to the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Accepting Lenders and the Declining Lenders, no later than the tenth (10th) day following the date by which each Lender is required, pursuant to , to approve or disapprove the requested extension of the total Commitments, either:
Accepting Lenders
Section 2.7(a)
Declining Lenders
Section 2.7(a)
 
(i) elect to extend the Maturity Date and direct the Declining Lenders to terminate their Commitments, which termination shall become effective on the date which would have been the Maturity Date except for the operation of this Section. On the date which would have been the Maturity Date except for the operation of this Section, (x) Borrower shall deliver a notice of the effectiveness of such termination to the Declining Lenders with a copy to the Canadian Administrative Agent and (y) Borrower shall pay in full in immediately available funds all Obligations of Borrower owing to the Declining Lenders, including any amounts required pursuant to , and (z) upon the occurrence of the events set forth in clauses (x) and (y), the Declining Lenders shall each cease to be a Lender hereunder for all purposes, other than for purposes of through , and , and shall cease to have any obligations or any Commitment hereunder, other than to the Agents pursuant to , and the Canadian Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Accepting Lenders and Borrower of the new Commitments; or
Section 2.16
Sections 2.15
2.18
Section 2.20
Section 10.3
Article IX
(ii) elect to extend the Maturity Date and, prior to or no later than the then scheduled Maturity Date, (A) to replace one or more of the Declining Lenders with another lender or lenders reasonably acceptable to the Canadian Administrative Agent (such lenders herein called the "") and (B) Borrower shall pay in full in immediately available funds all Obligations of Borrower owing to any Declining Lenders which are not being replaced, as provided in clause (i) above; that (x) any Replacement Lender shall purchase, and any Declining Lender shall sell, such Declining Lender's rights and obligations hereunder without recourse or expense to, or warranty by, such Declining Lender being replaced for a purchase price equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Obligations payable to such Declining Lender plus any accrued but unpaid interest on such Obligations and accrued but unpaid fees or other amounts owing in respect of such Declining Lender's Loans and Commitments hereunder, including compensation for any break funding, to the extent required by , and (y) upon the payment of such amounts referred to in clause (x) and the execution of an Assignment and Acceptance by such Replacement Lender and such Declining Lender, such Replacement Lender shall constitute a Lender hereunder and such Declining Lender being so replaced shall no longer constitute a Lender (other than for purposes of through , and ), and shall no longer have any obligations hereunder, other than to the Agents pursuant to ; or
Replacement Lenders
provided
Section 2.16
Sections 2.15
2.18
Section 2.20
Section 10.3
Article IX
(iii) elect to revoke and cancel the extension request in such Certificate of Extension by giving notice of such revocation and cancellation to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof) no later than the tenth (10th) day following the date by which each Lender is required, pursuant to , to approve or disapprove the requested extension of the Maturity Date, and concomitantly the total Commitments.
Section 2.7(a)
If Borrower fails to timely provide the election notice referred to in this , Borrower shall be deemed to have revoked and cancelled the extension request in the Certificate of Extension and to have elected not to extend the Maturity Date.
Section 2.7(c)
Section 2.8.
Interest Elections.
 
(a) Each Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request (or an ABR Borrowing if no Type is specified) and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request (or one month if no Interest Period is specified). Thereafter, Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. Borrower may, subject to the requirements of , elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
Section 2.2(c)
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, Borrower shall notify the Canadian Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under if Borrower were requesting a Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Canadian Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request signed by Borrower.
Section 2.3
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Section 2.2
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "".
Interest Period
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Canadian Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
 
(e) If Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Canadian Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing, (i) no outstanding Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid and the Indebtedness has not been accelerated pursuant to , each Eurodollar Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
provided
Section 8.3
Section 2.9.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
(a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
(b) Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with , the Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
Section 2.11
(c) Borrower shall notify the Canadian Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under at least two Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Canadian Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by Borrower (by notice to the Canadian Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
Section 2.9(b)
provided
Section 2.10.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
(a) Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Loan on the Maturity Date or, if earlier, the date on which the Commitment of such Lender relating to such Loan is terminated (except for termination of the Commitment of the assigning Lender pursuant to ).
Section 10.4(b)
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
 
(c) The Canadian Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Canadian Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to Section 2.10(b) or shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Canadian Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.10(c)
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by one or more promissory notes. In such event, Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender promissory notes payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns and in a form approved by the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent). Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory notes and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to ) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if any such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Section 10.4
Section 2.11.
Prepayment of Loans.
(a) Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b) Borrower shall notify the Canadian Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 1:00 p.m., Toronto time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment or (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Borrowing, not later than noon, Toronto time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by , then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with . Promptly following receipt of any such notice, the Canadian Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in . Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by and compensation for break funding, to the extent required by .
provided
Section 2.9
Section 2.9
Section 2.2
Section 2.13
Section 2.16
 
Section 2.12.
Fees.
(a) Borrower agrees to pay to the Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender on a pro rata basis (based on Commitments) a facility fee (the ""), which Facility Fee shall accrue at the Facility Fee Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Global Effective Date to but excluding the Maturity Date; that, if such Lender continues to have any Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such Facility Fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Credit Exposure. Accrued Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on the first day of April, July and October and the second day of January of each year, as applicable, and on the Maturity Date, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Global Effective Date; that any Facility Fees accruing as of the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
Facility Fee
provided
provided
(b) Borrower agrees to pay to the Canadian Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between Borrower and the Canadian Administrative Agent.
(c) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Canadian Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of Facility Fees, to the Lenders. Any and all fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
Section 2.13.
Interest.
(a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing shall bear interest on the daily amount outstanding at the Alternate Base Rate plus the Base Rate Margin.
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Borrowing shall bear interest on the daily amount outstanding at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Eurodollar Margin.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in .
Section 2.13(a)
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and on the Maturity Date; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan, accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, (iii) in the event of any conversion of any
provided
Section 2.13(c)
 
Eurodollar Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion, and (iv) with respect to any Declining Lender, accrued interest shall be paid upon the termination of the Commitment of such Lender.
(e) Subject to , all interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Canadian Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 10.12
(f) . To the extent permitted by applicable law, any provision of the Interest Act (Canada) or the Judgment Interest Act (Alberta) which restricts any rate of interest set forth herein shall be inapplicable to this Agreement and is hereby waived by Borrower.
Interest Act Waiver
(g) . The theory of deemed reinvestment shall not apply to the calculation of interest or payment of fees or other amounts hereunder, notwithstanding anything contained in this Agreement, acceptance or other evidence of indebtedness or in any other Loan Document now or hereafter taken by any Agent or any Lender for the obligations of Borrower under this Agreement, or any other instrument referred to herein, and all interest and fees payable by Borrower to the Lenders, shall accrue from day to day, computed as described herein in accordance with the "nominal rate" method of interest calculation.
Nominal Rate
(h) . Where, in this Agreement, a rate of interest or fees is to be calculated on the basis of a 360-day year, such per annum rate is, for the purpose of the Interest Act (Canada), equivalent to the said rate (i) multiplied by the actual number of days in the one year period beginning on the first day of the period of calculation and (ii) divided by 360.
Interest Act
Section 2.14. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Canadian Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Canadian Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; or
(c) the Canadian Administrative Agent determines in good faith (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that by reason of circumstances affecting the interbank dollar market generally, deposits in dollars in the London interbank dollar market are not being offered for the applicable Interest Period and in an amount equal to the amount of the Loan requested by Borrower,
 
then the Canadian Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Canadian Administrative Agent notifies Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Borrowing to, or continuation of any Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as a Eurodollar Loan having the shortest Interest Period which is not unavailable under through , and if no Interest Period is available, as an ABR Borrowing and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as a Eurodollar Loan having the shortest Interest Period which is not unavailable under through , and if no Interest Period is available, as an ABR Borrowing; that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
Section 2.14(a)
Section 2.14(c)
Section 2.14(a)
Section 2.14(c)
provided
Section 2.15.
Increased Costs.
(a) If any Change in Law shall:
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender reasonably determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section (together with the calculation thereof) shall be delivered to Borrower and shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error. Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
 
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; further that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
Section 2.16. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by Borrower pursuant to either or then, in any such event, Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive, together with the calculation thereof, pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to Borrower and to the Canadian Administrative Agent and shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error. Borrower shall pay to the Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
Section 2.11(b)
Section 2.7
Section 2.19
Section 2.17.
Taxes.
(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction or withholding for Taxes; that if Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct or withhold any Taxes from such payments, then (i) Borrower shall make such deduction or withholding, (ii) Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law, and (iii) if such Tax is an Indemnified Tax or Other Tax, the sum payable by Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions or withholdings (including deductions and withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deduction or withholding been made.
provided
 
(b) In addition, Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) Borrower shall pay the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto (other than any such penalties or interest arising through the failure of the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or Lender to act as a reasonably prudent agent or lender, respectively), whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to Borrower by a Lender, or by either the Canadian Administrative Agent or the Global Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by Borrower to a Governmental Authority pursuant to this , Borrower shall deliver to the Canadian Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Canadian Administrative Agent.
Section 2.17
(e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to Borrower (with a copy to the Canadian Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
Section 2.18.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs.
(a) Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it to the Canadian Administrative Agent hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under , or , or otherwise) prior to 1:00 p.m., Toronto time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. All such payments shall be made to the Canadian Administrative Agent, 4
Section 2.15
Section 2.16
Section 2.17
th
Floor, 20 King Street West, Toronto, Ontario, M5H 1C4, attention: Manager, Agency Services Group, telephone (416) 842-3901, facsimile: (416) 842-4023, except that payments pursuant to , and shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Canadian Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
Sections 2.15
2.17
10.3
 
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Canadian Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties. If insufficient funds are received due to Borrower's entitlement to withhold amounts on account of Excluded Taxes in relation to a particular Lender, such insufficiency shall not be subject to this but shall be withheld from and shall only affect payments made to such Lender.
Section 2.18(b)
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent (x) Borrower may effectively do so under applicable law, and (y) any Lender may effectively do so pursuant to , that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of Borrower in the amount of such participation.
provided
Section 10.8
(d) Unless the Canadian Administrative Agent shall have received notice from Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that Borrower will not make such payment, the Canadian Administrative Agent may assume that Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Canadian Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Canadian Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Canadian Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules in Canada on interbank compensation.
 
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to , then the Canadian Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender for the benefit of the Canadian Administrative Agent to satisfy such Lender's obligations to it under such Section until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid, and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Lender under any such Section, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Canadian Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion.
Section 2.18(d)
(f) Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary contained herein, if any Defaulting Lender shall have failed to fund a Loan forming any portion of a Borrowing (each such Loan, an ""), (i) each payment by Borrower on account of the interest on such Borrowing shall be distributed to each Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender (each, a "") pro rata based on the outstanding principal amount of such Borrowing owing to all Non-Defaulting Lenders, and (ii) each prepayment of a Borrowing by Borrower pursuant to shall be distributed (x) to each Non-Defaulting Lender pro rata based on the outstanding principal amount of such Borrowing owing to all Non-Defaulting Lenders, until the principal amount of such Borrowing (other than the Affected Loans) has been repaid in full and (y) to the extent of any remaining amount of such prepayment relating to such Borrowing, to each Lender which has amounts outstanding with respect to such Borrowing pro rata in accordance with such Lender's Applicable Percentage.
Affected Loan
Non-Defaulting Lender
Section 2.11
Section 2.19.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
(a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Applicable Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Section 2.17
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender hereunder, then Borrower may upon notice to such Lender and the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse or expense to, or warranty by, such Lender (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 10.4), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee designated by Borrower and which meets the requirements of that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 10.4(b)
provided
 
principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Borrower (in the case of all other amounts), (iii) the assignee and assignor shall have entered into an Assignment and Acceptance, and (iv) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments.
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 2.20.
Currency Conversion and Currency Indemnity.
(a) Payments in Agreed Currency. Borrower shall make payment relative to any Obligation in the currency (the "") in which the Obligation was effected. If any payment is received on account of any Obligation in any currency (the "") other than the Agreed Currency (whether voluntarily or pursuant to an order or judgment or the enforcement thereof or the realization of any security or the liquidation of Borrower or otherwise howsoever), such payment shall constitute a discharge of the liability of Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents in respect of such obligation only to the extent of the amount of the Agreed Currency which the relevant Lender or Agent, as the case may be, is able to purchase with the amount of the Other Currency received by it on the Business Day next following such receipt in accordance with its normal procedures and after deducting any premium and costs of exchange.
Agreed Currency
Other Currency
(b) Conversion of Agreed Currency into Judgment Currency. If, for the purpose of obtaining or enforcing judgment in any court in any jurisdiction, it becomes necessary to convert into a particular currency (the "") any amount due in the Agreed Currency then the conversion shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange prevailing on the next Business Day following the date such judgment is given and in any event Borrower shall be obligated to pay the Agents and the Lenders any deficiency in accordance with . For the foregoing purposes "rate of exchange" means the rate at which the relevant Lender or Agent, as applicable, in accordance with its normal banking procedures is able on the relevant date to purchase the Agreed Currency with the Judgment Currency after deducting any premium and costs of exchange.
Judgment Currency
Section 2.20(c)
(c) Circumstances Giving Rise to Indemnity. If (i) any Lender or any Agent receives any payment or payments on account of the liability of Borrower hereunder pursuant to any judgment or order in any Other Currency, and (ii) the amount of the Agreed Currency which the relevant Lender or Agent, as applicable, is able to purchase on the Business Day next following such receipt with the proceeds of such payment or payments in accordance with its normal procedures and after deducting any premiums and costs of exchange is less than the amount of the Agreed Currency due in respect of such obligations immediately prior to such judgment or order, then Borrower on demand shall, and Borrower hereby agrees to, indemnify and save the Lenders and the Agents harmless from and against any loss, cost or expense arising out of or in connection with such deficiency.
 
(d) Indemnity Separate Obligation. The agreement of indemnity provided for in shall constitute an obligation separate and independent from all other obligations contained in this Agreement, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by the Lenders or Agents or any of them from time to time, and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order for a liquidated sum in respect of an amount due hereunder or under any judgment or order.
Section 2.20(c)
Section 2.21. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
Defaulting Lenders
(a) Fees shall cease to accrue on the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to .
Section 2.12
(b) The Commitment and Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included (in either the calculation of aggregate Commitments, outstanding Obligations or otherwise) in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to ); , that this clause (b) shall not apply to the vote of a Defaulting Lender in the case of an amendment, waiver or other modification requiring the consent of such Lender as a Lender affected thereby pursuant to .
Section 10.2
provided
Section 10.2(b)
(c) Borrower may elect to replace any Defaulting Lender in accordance with the provisions of .
Section 2.19(b)
Section 2.22. .
Additional Borrowers
(a) A Person which is a Subsidiary which is not a non-resident of Canada for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and which is domiciled in Canada may become an Additional Borrower with respect hereto, and shall be bound by and entitled to the benefits and obligations of this Agreement as a Borrower hereunder to the same extent as any other Additional Borrower, upon the fulfillment of the following conditions:
(i) Resolutions and Officers' Certificates. Such Person shall deliver all the items identified in with respect to such Person.
Section 4.1(a)
(ii) Certificate. An Authorized Officer of each Borrower shall have delivered to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent a certificate stating that such Person is a Subsidiary of the Parent which is not a non-resident of Canada for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) and which is domiciled in Canada.
(iii) No Default. No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
(iv) Representations and Warranties. The representations and warranties in hereto are true and correct with respect to such Person, mutatis mutandis, as of the date such Person executes the Additional Borrower Counterpart described in below.
Article III
Section 2.22(a)(v)
 
(v) Additional Borrower Counterpart. Such Person shall execute an Additional Borrower Counterpart to this Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit G (the "") or such other agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent.
Additional Borrower Counterpart
(vi) Opinions of Counsel. The Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent shall have received legal opinions, dated as of the date such Person executes the Additional Borrower Counterpart described above, addressed to the Agents and the Lenders, having substantially the same coverage as those opinions attached hereto as Exhibits A and B and in form and substance acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent, in their reasonable discretion.
(vii) Approval. The Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent shall have approved the addition of such Person as an Additional Borrower, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
(viii) Identification Requirements. Such Person shall provide such evidence as is reasonably requested by either Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, on behalf of itself or any Lender, or by any Lender to comply with all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations.
(ix) Notice. The Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and each Lender shall have received prior written notice from an Authorized Officer of Apache Canada of an Additional Borrower becoming party to this Agreement at least five (5) Business Days prior to the date selected for such Additional Borrower to become party to this Agreement.
(b) Upon fulfillment of the conditions in this , the Global Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of the date that such Person becomes an Additional Borrower hereunder.
Section 2.22(a)
(c) In the event that any Additional Borrower determines that it no longer desires to be a Borrower under this Agreement and so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such Additional Borrower shall deliver to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent an Additional Borrower Termination Notice, substantially in the form of Exhibit H (the ""), executed by such Additional Borrower and Apache Canada. Within five (5) Business Days following receipt of the Global Administrative Agent's and Canadian Administrative Agent's consent to the removal of such Additional Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, such Additional Borrower shall pay to the Canadian Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the full amount of any outstanding Loan made to such Additional Borrower in accordance with the prepayment provisions of . Upon receipt by the Canadian Administrative Agent of all amounts due from such Additional Borrower, the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent shall acknowledge the removal of such Additional Borrower, and the termination of any obligations of such Additional Borrower under this Agreement, by delivering their countersignatures to the applicable Additional Borrower Termination Notice, following which delivery, such Additional Borrower shall cease to be a Borrower under this Agreement.
Additional Borrower Termination Notice
Section 2.11
 
Section 2.23. .
Increase in Commitments
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower shall have the right to cause from time to time an increase in the Commitments of the Lenders by up to $150,000,000 in the aggregate (a "") by adding to this Agreement one or more additional financial institutions that are not already Lenders hereunder and that are consented to by the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) or by allowing one or more existing Lenders to increase their respective Commitments (each a ""); , , that (i) at the time of the Commitment Increase, no Event of Default shall have occurred which is continuing, (ii) no such Commitment Increase shall cause the total amount of the Commitments to exceed U.S.$450,000,000, (iii) no Lender's Commitment shall be increased without such Lender's prior written consent (which consent may be given or withheld in such Lender's sole and absolute discretion), (iv) if, on the effective date of such increase, any Loans have been funded, then the Borrower shall be obligated to pay any breakage fees or costs in connection with the reallocation of such outstanding Loans, and (v) each CI Lender shall execute a Notice of Commitment Increase and deliver such executed notice to the Canadian Administrative Agent.
Commitment Increase
CI Lender
provided
however
(b) Any Commitment Increase must be requested by written notice from the Borrower to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent (a "") in the form of Exhibit I attached hereto. Once the Notice of Commitment Increase is fully-executed, such notice and such Commitment Increase shall be effective on the proposed effective date set forth in such notice (not less than five (5) Business Days after receipt by the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent) or on another date agreed to by the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Borrower (such date referred to as the "").
Notice of Commitment Increase
Commitment Increase Effective Date
(c) On each Commitment Increase Effective Date, to the extent that there are Loans outstanding as of such date, (i) each CI Lender shall, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, deliver to the Canadian Administrative Agent such CI Lender's New Funds Amount, which amount, for each such CI Lender, shall constitute Loans made by such CI Lender to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement on such Commitment Increase Effective Date, (ii) the Canadian Administrative Agent shall, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, pay to each then Reducing Percentage Lender its Reduction Amount, which amount, for each such Reducing Percentage Lender, shall constitute a prepayment by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.10, ratably in accordance with the respective principal amounts thereof, of the principal amounts of all then outstanding Loans of such Reducing Percentage Lender, and (iii) the Borrower shall be responsible to pay to each Lender any breakage fees or costs in connection with the reallocation of any outstanding Loans.
(d) Each Commitment Increase shall become effective on its Commitment Increase Effective Date and upon such effectiveness (i) the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent shall record in its records the CI Lender's information as provided in the Notice of Commitment Increase and pursuant to an Administrative Questionnaire
 
in form satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent that shall be executed and delivered by each CI Lender to the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent on or before the Commitment Increase Effective Date, (ii) Schedule 2.1 hereof shall be amended and restated to set forth all Lenders (including any CI Lenders) that will be Lenders hereunder after giving effect to such Commitment Increase (which shall be set forth in Annex I to the applicable Notice of Commitment Increase) and the Canadian Administrative Agent shall distribute to each Lender (including each CI Lender) a copy of such amended and restated Schedule 2.1, and (iii) each CI Lender identified on the Notice of Commitment Increase for such Commitment Increase shall be a "" for all purposes under this Agreement.
Lender
In order to induce the Lenders and the Agents to enter into this Agreement and the Lenders to make Loans hereunder, Borrower represents and warrants unto the Agents and each Lender as set forth in this .
Article III
Section 3.1. . Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries is a corporation or other legal entity, in either case duly incorporated or otherwise properly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and has all requisite authority, permits and approvals, and is in good standing to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted where the failure to so qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Organization
Section 3.2. . The execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and each other Loan Document executed or to be executed by it, are within Borrower's corporate, limited liability company, partnership or other similar powers, as applicable, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, limited liability company, partnership or other similar action on behalf of it, and do not (a) contravene Borrower's articles of incorporation or other organizational documents, as the case may be; (b) contravene any material contractual restriction, law or governmental regulation or court decree or order binding on or affecting Borrower or any Subsidiary; or (c) result in, or require the creation or imposition of, any Lien, not permitted by , on any of Borrower's or any Subsidiary's properties. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document executed by Borrower will, on the due execution and delivery thereof, constitute, the legal, valid and binding obligations of Borrower enforceable in accordance with their respective terms subject as to enforcement only to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditor rights generally and to general principles of equity.
Authorization and Validity
Section 7.1
Section 3.3. . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or other Person is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Neither Parent or Borrower nor any of their Subsidiaries is an "investment company," within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Government Approval and Regulation
 
Section 3.4. . The unfunded pension or similar liabilities of Parent, Borrower and their Subsidiaries do not in the aggregate exceed $150,000,000.
Unfunded Pension Liabilities
Section 3.5. . Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock, and no proceeds of any Loans will be used for a purpose which violates, or would be inconsistent with, Regulation U. Terms for which meanings are provided in Regulations U are used in this Section with such meanings.
Regulation U
Section 3.6. . Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has to the best knowledge of Borrower after due investigation filed all tax returns and reports required by law to have been filed by it and has paid all taxes and governmental charges thereby shown to be owing, except any such taxes or charges which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP shall have been set aside on its books or which the failure to file or pay could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
Section 3.7. . hereto contains an accurate list of all of the presently existing Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, Restricted Subsidiaries of Borrower as of the date of this Agreement, setting forth their respective jurisdictions of incorporation or organization and the percentage of their respective capital stock or, the revenue share attributable to the general and limited partnership interests, as the case may be, owned by Borrower or other Subsidiaries. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of such Subsidiaries which are corporations have been duly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Subsidiaries; Restricted Subsidiaries
Schedule 3.7
Section 3.8. . As of the Global Effective Date, no Default or Event of Default exits.
No Default or Event of Default
Section 4.1. . This Agreement shall become effective upon the prior or concurrent satisfaction of each of the conditions precedent set forth in this .
Effectiveness
Section 4.1
(a) . The Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received from Borrower a certificate, dated the Global Effective Date, of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of Borrower as to (i) resolutions of its governing board, then in full force and effect authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each other Loan Document to be executed by it; (ii) the incumbency and signatures of those of its officers authorized to act with respect to this Agreement and each other Loan Document executed by it; and (iii) its articles of incorporation and bylaws; upon which certificates each Lender may conclusively rely until it shall have received a further certificate of an authorized officer of Borrower canceling or amending such prior certificate.
Resolutions and Officers Certificates
 
(b) . The Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Parent and Borrower, stating that either (i) Parent or its Subsidiaries have repaid in full and terminated the Existing Credit Facilities concurrently with the effectiveness of the Combined Credit Agreements or (ii) the Existing Credit Facilities have been terminated in full prior to the effectiveness of the Combined Credit Agreements .
Existing Facilities
(c) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received opinions, dated the Global Effective Date, addressed to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, the other Agents and all Lenders, from (i) Bennett Jones LLP, counsel to Borrower, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, and (ii) Thompson & Knight LLP, U.S. counsel to Borrower, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Opinions of Counsel
(d) . The Canadian Administrative Agent shall have received for its own account, or for the account of each Lender and other Agent, as the case may be, all fees, costs and expenses due and payable pursuant hereto.
Closing Fees and Expenses
(e) . The Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, stating that (i) the audited consolidated financial statements of Parent and its Subsidiaries for fiscal year 2011 and (ii) the report and accompanying financial statements of Parent, Borrower and its Subsidiaries for fiscal year 2011 (collectively, the "") fairly present Parent's and Borrower's consolidated financial condition and results of operations and that prior to the Global Effective Date no material adverse change in the condition or operations of Parent or Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, from that reflected in the 2011 Financials has occurred and is continuing.
Financial Statements
2011 Financials
(f) . In the ordinary course of its business, Borrower conducts an ongoing review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which it attempts to identify and evaluate associated liabilities and costs (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by law or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, stating that after such review Borrower has reasonably concluded that existing Environmental Laws are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or that Borrower has established adequate reserves in respect of any required clean-up or other remediation.
Environmental Warranties
(g) . The Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received the Global Effectiveness Notice.
Global Effectiveness Notice
 
(h) . The Canadian Administrative Agent shall have received copies of the executed (i) U.S. Credit Agreement and the other U.S. Loan Documents and (ii) Australian Credit Agreement and the other Australian Loan Documents.
Other Combined Credit Agreements
(i) . The Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received an executed Guaranty for Borrower.
Guaranty
(j) . The Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Parent, stating that no litigation, arbitration, governmental proceeding, Tax claim dispute or administrative or other proceeding shall be pending or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened against Parent or any of its Subsidiaries which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Litigation
(k) . The Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received such other instruments and documents as any of the Agents or their counsel may have reasonably requested.
Other Documents
The Canadian Administrative Agent shall notify Borrower, the other Agents and the Lenders of the Global Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to ) at or prior to 3:00 p.m., Toronto time, on June 30, 2012 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time).
Section 10.2
Section 4.2. . The obligation of each Lender to fund any Loan which results in an increase in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans under this Agreement on the occasion of any Borrowing shall be subject to the satisfaction of each of the conditions precedent set forth in this .
All Loans
Section 4.2
(a) . Both before and after giving effect to any Borrowing, the following statements shall be true and correct: (1) the representations and warranties set forth in shall be true and correct with the same effect as if then made (unless stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such earlier date); and (2) no Default or Event of Default shall have then occurred and be continuing.
Compliance with Warranties and No Default
Article III
(b) . The Canadian Administrative Agent shall have received a Borrowing Request for any Borrowing.
Borrowings
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and all Obligations shall have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
 
Section 5.1. . Borrower will furnish, will cause to be furnished or will assist Parent in furnishing, to each Lender, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent copies of the following financial statements, reports, notices and information:
Financial Reporting and Notices
(a) within 90 days after the end of each Fiscal Year of Borrower, a copy of the financial statements for Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, including therein consolidated balance sheets of Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and consolidated statements of earnings and cash flow of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, all prepared in accordance with GAAP in each case certified by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, such signature deemed to be a certification that such financial statements present fairly in accordance with GAAP the financial position of Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
(b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of Borrower commencing with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2012, unaudited consolidated balance sheets of Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal quarter and consolidated statements of earnings and cash flow of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal quarter and for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such fiscal quarter, all prepared in accordance with GAAP certified by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, such signature deemed to be a certification that such financial statements present fairly in accordance with GAAP the financial position of Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
(c) together with the financial statements described in (a) and (b) above, a compliance certificate, in substantially the form of Exhibit C or any other form approved by the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, executed by an Authorized Officer of Parent, an Authorized Officer of Apache Canada and an Authorized Officer of any Additional Borrower;
(d) within five (5) days after the occurrence of each Default, a statement of an Authorized Officer of Parent and an Authorized Officer of Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action which Parent and Borrower have taken and propose to take with respect thereto;
(e) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all material public filings, reports and communications from Parent or Borrower, and all reports and registration statements which Parent or Borrower or any of their Subsidiaries files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, any national securities exchange or any federal or provincial securities regulatory body in Canada; and
(f) such other information respecting the financial condition or operations of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Canadian Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
 
(g) Documents required to be delivered pursuant to this may be delivered electronically and shall be deemed to have been so delivered on the date (i) on which Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto, on its website (located on the date hereof at www.apachecorp.com) or (ii) on which such documents are posted on Borrower's behalf on IntraLinks or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial third-party website or whether sponsored by the Global Administrative Agent); that, Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent of the posting of any such document and the Global Administrative Agent and Canadian Administrative Agent shall in turn give the Lenders notice of such posting; and further that, if requested by the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Compliance Certificate to be delivered under shall also be delivered in a tangible, physical version or in .pdf format.
Section 5.1
provided
provided
Section 5.1(c)
Section 5.2. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders where noncompliance therewith may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
Compliance with Laws
Section 5.3. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain, preserve, protect and keep valid title to, or valid leasehold interest in, all of its properties and assets, real and personal, tangible and intangible, of any nature whatsoever (including patents, trademarks, trade names, service marks and copyrights), free and clear of all Liens, charges or claims (including infringement claims with respect to patents, trademarks, copyrights and the like) except as permitted pursuant to and except for imperfections and other burdens of title thereto as do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value thereof or for the use thereof in their businesses (taken as a whole).
Maintenance of Properties
Section 7.1
Section 5.4. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain or cause to be maintained with responsible insurance companies (subject to self-insured retentions) insurance with respect to its properties and business against such casualties and contingencies and of such types and in such amounts as is customary in the case of similar businesses.
Insurance
Section 5.5. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep books and records which accurately reflect all of its business affairs and transactions and permit the Canadian Administrative Agent or the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents and each Lender through the Canadian Administrative Agent or the Global Administrative Agent or any of their respective authorized representatives, during normal business hours and at reasonable intervals, to visit all of its offices, to discuss its financial matters with its officers and to examine (and, at the expense of the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or such other Agent or Lender or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, at the expense of Borrower, photocopy extracts from) any of its books or other records.
Books and Records
Section 5.6. .
[Intentionally omitted]
Section 5.7. . Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, use the proceeds of the Loans for Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' general corporate purposes.
Use of Proceeds
 
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and all Obligations shall have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 6.1. . Parent will not permit its ratio (expressed as a percentage) of (i) the consolidated Debt of Parent and its Subsidiaries to (ii) Capital to be greater than 60% at the end of any fiscal quarter beginning with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2012.
Ratio of Total Debt to Capital
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and all Obligations shall have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 7.1. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon the Property of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to secure Indebtedness of Borrower or any other Person except:
Liens
(i) Liens on any property or assets owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary existing at the time such property or asset was acquired (or at the time such Person became a Subsidiary); that in the case of the acquisition of a Subsidiary such Lien only encumbers property or assets immediately prior to, or at the time of, the acquisition by Borrower of such Subsidiary;
provided
(ii) purchase money Liens so long as such Liens only encumber property or assets acquired with the proceeds of the purchase money indebtedness incurred in connection with such Lien;
(iii) Liens granted by an Unrestricted Subsidiary on its assets to secure Indebtedness incurred by such Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(iv) Liens on assets of a Restricted Subsidiary securing Indebtedness of a Restricted Subsidiary owing to Borrower, to Parent or to another Restricted Subsidiary or Liens on assets of an Unrestricted Subsidiary securing Indebtedness of an Unrestricted Subsidiary owing to Borrower, to Parent, to a Restricted Subsidiary or to another Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(v) Liens existing on the Global Effective Date set forth on ;
Schedule 7.1
(vi) Liens arising under operating agreements;
(vii) Liens reserved in oil, gas and/or mineral leases for bonus rental payments and for compliance with the terms of such leases;
 
(viii) Liens pursuant to partnership agreements, oil, gas and/or mineral leases, farm-out agreements, division orders, contracts for the sale, delivery, purchase, exchange, or processing of oil, gas and/or other hydrocarbons, unitization and pooling declarations and agreements, operating agreements, development agreements, area of mutual interest agreements, forward sales of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids, and other agreements which are customary in the oil, gas and other mineral exploration, development and production business and in the business of processing of gas and gas condensate production for the extraction of products therefrom;
(ix) Liens on the stock or other ownership interests of or in any Unrestricted Subsidiary;
(x) Liens for taxes, assessments or similar charges, incurred in the ordinary course of business, that are not yet due and payable or that are being contested as set forth in ;
Section 3.6
(xi) pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure payment of worker's compensation, or to participate in any fund in connection with worker's compensation, unemployment insurance, old-age pensions or other social security programs;
(xii) Liens imposed by mandatory provisions of law such as for mechanics', materialmen's, warehousemen's, carriers', or other like Liens, securing obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business that are not yet due and payable;
(xiii) Liens in renewal or extension of any of the foregoing permitted Liens, so long as limited to the property or assets encumbered and the amount of Indebtedness secured immediately prior to such renewal or extension;
(xiv) Liens or any rights of distress reserved in or exercisable under any lease or sublease to which it is a lessee which secure the payment of rent or compliance with the terms of such lease or sublease, that such rent is not then overdue and it is then in compliance in all material respects with such terms;
provided
(xv) Liens in favor of a government or public authority within Canada resulting from the deposit of cash or bonds as security for the performance of any of its obligations (other than for the payment of money) made in the ordinary course of its business, that such security is required or requested pursuant to any applicable law, and the obligations secured thereby are not overdue (or if overdue are being contested by it diligently and in good faith by appropriate proceedings);
provided
(xvi) Liens to secure its performance in connection with bids or tenders submitted by it, or contracts (other than contracts for the payment of money) or leases of real property (other than Capitalized Leases) or licenses to which it is a party, all such Liens being granted in the ordinary course of its business, that such performance obligations are not overdue (or if overdue are being contested by it diligently and in good faith by appropriate proceedings); and
provided
 
(xvii) in addition to Liens permitted by clauses (i) through (xvi) above and permitted by the U.S. Credit Agreement, Liens on property or assets of Parent, Borrower and any of their Subsidiaries if the aggregate Indebtedness of all such Persons secured thereby does not exceed five percent (5%) of Parent's Consolidated Assets; that nothing in this definition shall in and of itself constitute or be deemed to constitute an agreement or acknowledgment by the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender that the Indebtedness subject to or secured by any such Lien ranks (apart from the effect of any Lien included in or inherent in any such Liens) in priority to the Obligations.
provided
Section 7.2. . Borrower will not liquidate or dissolve, amalgamate with, consolidate with, or merge into or with, any other Person unless (a) Borrower is the survivor of such amalgamation, merger or consolidation, and (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would occur after giving effect thereto.
Mergers
Section 7.3. . Apache Canada will not, and will not permit any Additional Borrower to, sell, transfer, lease, contribute or otherwise convey, or grant options, warrants or other rights with respect to all or substantially all of its assets. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prohibit any transfer of any assets from any Borrower to any Subsidiary of such Borrower, from any Subsidiary of a Borrower to such Borrower or from a Subsidiary of a Borrower to another Subsidiary of such Borrower.
Asset Dispositions
Section 7.4. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into, or cause, suffer or permit to exist any arrangement or contract with any of its other Affiliates unless such arrangement or contract or group of arrangements or contracts, as the case may be, are conducted on an arms-length basis.
Transactions with Affiliates
Section 7.5. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any agreement (excluding this Agreement or any other Loan Document) limiting the ability of Borrower to amend or otherwise modify this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, enter into any agreement which restricts or prohibits the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary to make any payments, directly or indirectly, to Borrower by way of dividends, advances, repayments of loans or advances, reimbursements of management and other intercompany charges, expenses and accruals or other returns on investments, or any other agreement or arrangement which restricts the ability of any such Restricted Subsidiary to make any payment, directly or indirectly, to Borrower.
Restrictive Agreements
Section 7.6. . Parent and Borrower will not, and will not permit any of their Restricted Subsidiaries to, guaranty any Indebtedness not included in the consolidated Debt of Parent and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate outstanding principal amount at any time exceeding $150,000,000.
Guaranties
 
Section 8.1. . Each of the following events or occurrences described in this shall constitute an "":
Listing of Events of Default
Section 8.1
Event of Default
(a) Non-Payment of Obligations. Borrower shall default in the payment or prepayment when due of any principal of any Loan, or Borrower shall default (and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of five (5) Business Days) in the payment when due of any interest, fee or of any other obligation hereunder.
(b) Breach of Warranty. Any representation or warranty of Borrower made or deemed to be made hereunder or in any other Loan Document or any other writing or certificate furnished by or on behalf of Borrower to the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent, any other Agent or any Lender for the purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any such other Loan Document is or shall be false or misleading when made in any material respect.
(c) Non-Performance of Covenants and Obligations. Borrower or Parent shall default in the due performance and observance of any of its obligations under or under .
Section 7.2
Article VI
(d) Non-Performance of Other Covenants and Obligations. Borrower or Parent shall default in the due performance and observance of any other agreement contained herein or in any other Loan Document, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given to Borrower by the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent, or the Required Lenders.
(e) Default on Other Indebtedness. A default shall occur in the payment when due (subject to any applicable grace period), whether by acceleration or otherwise, of any direct payment obligation of Parent, Borrower or any of their Restricted Subsidiaries in any amount in excess of $150,000,000.
(f) [Intentionally omitted].
(g) Bankruptcy and Insolvency. Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall (a) become insolvent or generally fail to pay, or admit in writing its inability or unwillingness to generally pay, debts as they become due; (b) apply for, consent to, or acquiesce in, the appointment of a trustee, receiver, receiver and manager, sequestrator or other custodian for Borrower, or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any substantial part of the property of any thereof, or make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; (c) in the absence of such application, consent or acquiescence, permit or suffer to exist the appointment of a trustee, receiver, receiver and manager, sequestrator or other custodian for Borrower, or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or for a substantial part of the property of any thereof, and such trustee, receiver, receiver and manager, sequestrator or other custodian shall not be discharged within 60 days, that Borrower and each Restricted Subsidiary hereby expressly authorizes the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent, each other Agent and each Lender to appear in any court conducting any relevant proceeding during such 60-day period to
provided
 
preserve, protect and defend their rights under the Loan Documents; (d) permit or suffer to exist the commencement of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, debt arrangement or other case or proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, or any dissolution, winding up or liquidation proceeding, in respect of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and, if any such case or proceeding is not commenced by Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary, such case or proceeding shall be consented to or acquiesced in by Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary or shall result in the entry of an order for relief or shall remain for 60 days undismissed, that Borrower and each Restricted Subsidiary hereby expressly authorizes the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent, and each Lender to appear in any court conducting any such case or proceeding during such 60-day period to preserve, protect and defend their rights under the Loan Documents; or (e) take any corporate or partnership action authorizing, or in furtherance of, any of the foregoing. Notwithstanding parts (c) and (d) of this , during the 60 day periods referred to therein, and for the sole purposes of (i) voting at any meeting of creditors of Borrower which may take place during such 60 day period or (ii) having standing and participating in proceedings or matters arising out of (c) or (d) above where any Agent or Lender is acting to preserve, protect or defend its rights under the Loan Documents, the Lenders, at their sole option, shall be deemed to have accelerated repayment pursuant to and the Indebtedness of Borrower hereunder shall be deemed to have become due and payable, but such deeming shall not of itself be considered a Default hereunder.
provided
Section 8.1(g)
Section 8.3
(h) Judgments. Any judgment or order for the payment of money in an amount of $150,000,000 or more in excess of valid and collectible insurance in respect thereof or in excess of an indemnity with respect thereto reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders shall be rendered against Parent, Borrower or any of their Restricted Subsidiaries and either (a) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (b) such judgment shall have become final and non-appealable and shall have remained outstanding for a period of 60 consecutive days.
(i) Change in Control. Parent fails to own or control, directly or indirectly, all of the voting shares of Borrower.
(j) Event of Default under other Combined Loan Documents. Any "" as defined in the U.S. Loan Documents or the Australian Loan Documents shall occur; that the occurrence of a "" as defined in the U.S. Loan Documents or the Australian Loan Documents shall constitute a Default under this Agreement; further that if such "" is cured or waived under the U.S. Loan Documents or the Australian Loan Documents, as applicable, then such "" shall no longer constitute a Default under this Agreement.
Event of Default
provided
Default
provided
Default
Default
Section 8.2. . If any Event of Default described in shall occur, the Commitments (if not theretofore terminated) shall automatically terminate and the outstanding principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all other obligations hereunder shall automatically be and become immediately due and payable, without notice or demand. Without limiting the foregoing, the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to exercise any and all other remedies available to them under the Loan Documents and applicable law.
Action if Bankruptcy
Section 8.1(g)
 
Section 8.3. . If any Event of Default (other than any Event of Default described in ) shall occur for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, and be continuing, the Canadian Administrative Agent, upon the direction of the Required Lenders, shall by notice to Borrower declare all of the outstanding principal amount of the Loans and all other obligations hereunder to be due and payable and the Commitments (if not theretofore terminated) to be terminated, whereupon the full unpaid amount of such Loans and other obligations shall be and become immediately due and payable, without further notice, demand or presentment, and the Commitments shall terminate. Without limiting the foregoing, the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to exercise any and all other remedies available to them under the Loan Documents and applicable law.
Action if Other Event of Default
Section 8.2
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints JPMorgan Chase Bank as Global Administrative Agent, Royal Bank of Canada as Canadian Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A as Global Syndication Agents, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Royal Bank of Canada as Global Documentation Agents, and authorizes each such Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to such Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
Any bank serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent hereunder.
The Agents shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Agents shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing (the use of the term "agent" herein and in the other Loan Documents with reference to the Agents is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law; rather, such term is used merely as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between independent contracting parties), (b) each Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that such Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, each Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as such Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. Each Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ) or in the absence of its own
Section 10.2
Section 10.2
 
gross negligence or willful misconduct. Each Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to such Agent by Borrower or a Lender, and such Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to such Agent. None of the Persons identified on the facing page of this Agreement as the "" (the ""), the Global Documentation Agents or the Global Syndication Agents shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement or any other Combined Loan Document other than, except in the case of the Arrangers, those applicable to all Lenders as such.
Article IV
Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners
Arrangers
The Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Any Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by such Agent. Any Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of such Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as an Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and Borrower. Upon any such resignation, Borrower shall have the right, in consultation with the Combined Required Lenders, to appoint one of the Lenders as a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by Borrower and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or Toronto, Canada, respectively, or an Affiliate of any such bank.
 
Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, and the retiring Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by Borrower to a successor Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between Borrower and such successor. After the Global Administrative Agent's or Canadian Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Global Administrative Agent or Canadian Administrative Agent, respectively.
Section 10.3
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Section 10.1. . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
(a) if to Borrower or any Additional Borrower, to:
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
Attention:     Matthew W. Dundrea
Senior Vice PresidentTreasury and Administration
Telephone:   (713) 296-6640
Facsimile:     (713) 296-6458
with a copy to:
Assistant Treasurer
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
 
Telephone:   (713) 296-6642
Facsimile:     (713) 296-6477
and with copy to:
Executive Vice President and General Counsel
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
Telephone:   (713) 296-6204
Facsimile:     (713) 296-6458
(b) if to the Global Administrative Agent, to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Loan & Agency Services Group
1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention:     Bejaye E. Ilegbodu
Telephone:   (713) 750-4147
Facsimile:     (713) 427-6307
with a copy to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
707 Travis Street, 12th Floor North
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention:     Debra Hrelja
Telephone:   (713) 216-4039
Facsimile:     (713) 216-8870
(c) if to the Canadian Administrative Agent, to
Royal Bank of Canada
4
th
Floor, 20 King Street West
Toronto, Ontario, M5H 1C4
Canada
Attention:     Manager, Agency Services Group
Telephone:   (416) 842-3901
Facsimile:     (416) 842-4023
with a copy to:
Royal Bank of Canada
2800 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 3900
Houston, Texas 77056
USA
Attention:     Don McKinnerney
 
Telephone:   (713) 403-5607
Facsimile:     (713) 403-5624
(d) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) provided to the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and Borrower or as set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices and other communications between the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Canadian Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to unless otherwise agreed by the Canadian Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Canadian Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
Article II
provided
Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall (i) if received by the recipient on or before 5:00 p.m., Toronto time, be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt or (ii) if received by the recipient after 5:00 p.m., Toronto time, be deemed to have been given on the day following the date of receipt.
Section 10.2.
Waivers; Amendments.
(a) No failure or delay by the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective except in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
(b) Any of the Combined Loan Documents or any provision thereof may be waived, amended or modified pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Borrower and the Combined Required Lenders or by Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent with the consent of the Combined Required Lenders; that the same waiver, amendment or modification is requested by Parent in connection with each of the Combined Credit Agreements; and further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of (i) the Lenders
provided
provided
 
described in the first proviso of without the prior written consent of each Lender affected thereby and (ii) the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent without the prior written consent of the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, respectively.
Section 10.2(c)
(c) Except as provided for in above, neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Borrower and the Required Lenders or by Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender or the Commitments without the written consent of such Lender or each Lender, respectively, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change or  in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) release any Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender, or (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "", "" or any other provision hereof or thereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or thereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder or thereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent hereunder or thereunder without the prior written consent of the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, respectively; further that in the event that any Additional Borrower elects to terminate its status as an Additional Borrower under this Agreement and delivers a properly executed Borrower Termination Notice pursuant to , such termination and release of such Additional Borrower from its Obligations under this Agreement shall require only the consent of the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Section 10.2(b)
provided
Section 2.18(b)
(c)
Required Lenders
Combined Required Lenders
provided
provided
Section 2.22(c)
Section 10.3.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(a) Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Arrangers, the Agents and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Agents (on a solicitor and his own client basis), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel (on a solicitor and his own client basis) for the Agents or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or this Agreement.
 
(b) Borrower shall indemnify the Agents, the Arrangers and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an ""), , against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel (or a solicitor and his own client basis) for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (i) resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (ii) arise in connection with any issue in litigation commenced by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against any Indemnitee for which a final judgment is entered in favor of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against such Indemnitee.
Indemnitee
WHETHER OR NOT RELATED TO ANY NEGLIGENCE OF THE INDEMNITEE
provided
(c) To the extent that Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Global Administrative Agent or the Canadian Administrative Agent, respectively.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, (i) Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, and (ii) Agents and Lenders shall not assert, and hereby waive, any claim against Borrower, in each case on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby (including, without limitation, any Loan Document), the Transactions or any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof, except for any such claim arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or the Borrower, as applicable; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this sentence shall limit the Borrower's indemnity obligations with respect to claims asserted by Persons (other than the Agents and the Lenders) to the extent set forth in this .
provided
Section 10.3
 
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than thirty (30) days after written demand therefor.
Section 10.4. .
Successors and Assigns
(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by Borrower without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b) Any Lender may assign to one or more assignees which are not non-residents of Canada for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that (i) U.S. Borrower and Apache Canada must give their prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (ii) the Global Administrative Agent and the Canadian Administrative Agent must give their prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (iii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Acceptance with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent) shall be in increments of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 unless each of Borrower, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent otherwise consent, (iv) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (v) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent an Assignment and Acceptance, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 to the Canadian Administrative Agent, and (vi) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; and further that any consent of U.S. Borrower and Borrower otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under has occurred and is continuing. Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Acceptance the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Acceptance, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Acceptance covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , , and ). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section.
provided
provided
Section 8.1
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.20
10.3
 
(c) The Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in Toronto, Canada, and The City of New York, respectively, a copy of each Assignment and Acceptance delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and Borrower, the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Acceptance executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Acceptance and record the information contained therein in the Register and will provide prompt written notice to Borrower of the effectiveness of such Assignment. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(e) Any Lender may, without the consent of Borrower, the Canadian Administrative Agent or the Global Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities which are not non-residents of Canada for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) Borrower, the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and (iv) if such Participant is not a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, such Lender shall have given notice to Borrower of the name of the Participant and the amount of such participation. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.8 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
Section 10.2(c)
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
Section 2.18(c)
 
(f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under , or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless Borrower shall expressly agree otherwise in writing. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Section 2.15
2.16
2.17
Section 2.17
Section 2.17(e)
(g) Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the Loans or other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Loans or its other obligations under this Agreement).
Participant Register
provided
(h) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender to a Federal Reserve Bank or, in the case of a Lender organized in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, a comparable Person, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(i) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no assignments or participations shall be made to any Borrower or any of their respective Affiliates or Subsidiaries, or to any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause.
Section 10.5. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Canadian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of , , , , and and shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.20
10.3
Article IX
 
Section 10.6. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Canadian Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent and when the Canadian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.1
Section 10.7. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
Section 10.8. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the Obligations of Borrower shall have been accelerated, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower against any of and all the obligations of each Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
Section 10.9. .
GOVERNING LAW; JURISDICTION; CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS
(a) THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS (OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINING A CONTRARY EXPRESS CHOICE OF LAW PROVISION) SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS (AND NOT THE LAW OF CONFLICTS) OF THE PROVINCE OF ALBERTA AND OF CANADA APPLICABLE THEREIN.
(b) BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE PROVINCE OF ALBERTA, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY
 
AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH COURTS OF THE PROVINCE OF ALBERTA. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE AGENTS OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AGAINST BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c) BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT IT MAY LEGALLY AND EFFECTIVELY DO SO, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN THE FIRST SENTENCE OF PARAGRAPH (b) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
(d) EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY REGISTERED MAIL, POSTAGE PREPAID, OR BY PERSONAL SERVICE WITHIN OR WITHOUT THE PROVINCE OF ALBERTA. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW.
Section 10.10. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
Section 10.11. . Each of the Agents and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory or self-regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) to any rating agency to the extent required by it, provided that, prior to any disclosure, such rating agency shall undertake in writing to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to the Borrowers received by it from any Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, (h) with the consent of Borrower or (i) to the extent such Information (i)
Confidentiality
 
becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section by any Person or (ii) becomes available to any Agent or any Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than Borrower or any Person obligated to maintain the confidentiality of such Information. Prior to disclosing any Information under clause (c) above, the Agent or Lender required or asked to make such disclosure shall make a good faith effort to give Borrower prior notice of such proposed disclosure to permit Borrower to attempt to obtain a protective order or other appropriate injunctive relief. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from Borrower relating to Borrower or its business, other than any publicly available information and such information that is available to any Agent or any Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure by Borrower; that, in the case of information received from Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
Section 10.12. . It is the intention of the parties hereto to conform strictly to applicable interest, usury and criminal laws and, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the obligations of Borrower to a Lender or any Agent under this Agreement shall be subject to the limitation that payments of interest shall not be required to the extent that receipt thereof would be contrary to provisions of law applicable to such Lender or Agent limiting rates of interest which may be charged or collected by such Lender or Agent. Accordingly, if the transactions contemplated hereby would be illegal, unenforceable, usurious or criminal under laws applicable to a Lender or Agent (including the laws of any jurisdiction whose laws may be mandatorily applicable to such Lender or Agent notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document but subject to hereof) then, in that event, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, it is agreed as follows:
Interest Rate Limitation
Section 2.13
(i) the provisions of this Section shall govern and control;
(ii) the aggregate of all consideration which constitutes interest under applicable law that is contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received under this Agreement, or under any of the other aforesaid agreements or otherwise in connection with this Agreement by such Lender or Agent shall under no circumstances exceed the maximum amount of interest allowed by applicable law (such maximum lawful interest rate, if any, with respect to each Lender and the Agent herein called the ""), and any excess shall be cancelled automatically and if theretofore paid shall be credited to Borrower by such Lender or Agent (or, if such consideration shall have been paid in full, such excess refunded to Borrower);
Highest Lawful Rate
(iii) all sums paid, or agreed to be paid, to such Lender or Agent for the use, forbearance and detention of the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender or Agent hereunder or under any Loan Document shall, to the extent permitted by laws applicable to such Lender or Agent, as the case may be, be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread throughout the full term of such indebtedness until payment in full so that the actual rate of interest is uniform throughout the full term thereof;
 
(iv) if at any time the interest provided pursuant to this Section or any other clause of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, together with any other fees or compensation payable pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document and deemed interest under laws applicable to such Lender or Agent, exceeds that amount which would have accrued at the Highest Lawful Rate, the amount of interest and any such fees or compensation to accrue to such Lender or Agent pursuant to this Agreement shall be limited, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, to that amount which would have accrued at the Highest Lawful Rate, but any subsequent reductions, as applicable, shall not reduce the interest to accrue to such Lender or Agent pursuant to this Agreement below the Highest Lawful Rate until the total amount of interest accrued pursuant to this Agreement or such other Loan Document, as the case may be, and such fees or compensation deemed to be interest equals the amount of interest which would have accrued to such Lender or Agent if a varying rate equal to the interest provided pursuant to any other relevant Section hereof (other than this Section), as applicable, had at all times been in effect, the amount of fees which would have been received but for the effect of this Section; and
per annum
plus
(v) with the intent that the rate of interest herein shall at all times be lawful, and if the receipt of any funds owing hereunder or under any other agreement related hereto (including any of the other Loan Documents) by such Lender or Agent would cause such Lender to charge Borrower a criminal rate of interest, the Lenders and the Agents agree that they will not require the payment or receipt thereof or a portion thereof which would cause a criminal rate of interest to be charged by such Lender or Agent, as applicable, and if received such affected Lender or Agent will return such funds to Borrower so that the rate of interest paid by Borrower shall not exceed a criminal rate of interest from the date this Agreement was entered into.
Section 10.13. . Each Borrower has determined that it is in its best interest and in pursuance of its legitimate business purposes to induce the Lenders to extend credit to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement. Each Borrower acknowledges and represents that the availability of the Commitments to each of the Borrowers benefits each Borrower individually and that the Loans made will be for and inure to the benefit of each of the Borrowers individually and as a group. Accordingly, Apache Canada shall be jointly and severally liable (as a principal and not as a surety, guarantor or other accommodation party) for each and every representation, warranty, covenant and obligation to be performed by the Borrowers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and Apache Canada acknowledges that in extending the credit provided herein the Agents and the Lenders are relying upon the fact that the Obligations of each Borrower hereunder are the joint and several obligations of Apache Canada. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each Borrower, other than Apache Canada, shall be severally, and not jointly, liable for all Obligations incurred by such Borrower under this Agreement. The invalidity, unenforceability or illegality of this Agreement or any other Loan Document as to one Borrower or the release by the Agents or the Lenders of a Borrower hereunder or thereunder shall not affect the Obligations of the other Borrowers under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, all of which shall otherwise remain valid and legally binding obligations of the other Borrowers.
Joint and Several Obligations
 
Section 10.14. . Each Lender that is subject to the USA Patriot Act and the Global Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Borrower that, pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Borrower, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Global Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Borrower in accordance with the USA Patriot Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Section 10.15. . Each Lender that is subject to the and the Canadian Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of such Act, it may be required to obtain, verify and record information regarding the Borrower and the transactions contemplated hereby.
Anti-Money Laundering Legislation
Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act (Canada)
Section 10.16. . Each Agent, each Lender and their Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this paragraph, the "Lenders"), may have economic interests that conflict with those of the Borrower and/or its Affiliates. Each Borrower agrees that nothing in the Loan Documents will be deemed to create an advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary duty between any Lender, on the one hand, and such Borrower or its Affiliates, on the other. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that (i) the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents (including the exercise of rights and remedies thereunder) are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Lenders, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other, and (ii) in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents, (x) no Lender has assumed an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of any Borrower or its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby (or the exercise of rights or remedies with respect thereto) (irrespective of whether any Lender has advised, is currently advising or will advise any Borrower or its Affiliates on other matters) or any other obligation to any Borrower except the obligations expressly set forth in the Loan Documents and (y) each Agent and Lender is acting solely as principal and not as the agent or fiduciary of any Borrower or its Affiliates. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that it has consulted its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate and that it is responsible for making its own independent judgment with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents.
NO FIDUCIARY DUTY
Section 10.17. . THIS WRITTEN AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS AMONG THE PARTIES.
NO ORAL AGREEMENTS
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS:
 
 
THIS SYNDICATED FACILITY AGREEMENT, dated as of June 4, 2012, is among (ACN 009 301 964), a company incorporated in Australia and registered in the State of Western Australia, Australia ("" and together with each other Person that becomes an Additional Borrower pursuant to , the ""), the LENDERS (as defined below) party hereto, , as Global Administrative Agent, (ABN 51 008 489 610), as Australian Administrative Agent, and, as Global Syndication Agents, and and , as Global Documentation Agents.
APACHE ENERGY LIMITED
Apache Energy Limited
Section 2.22
Borrower
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
CITISECURITIES LIMITED
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
CITIBANK, N.A.
THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND PLC
ROYAL BANK OF CANADA
Borrower, Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent, and the other Agents party hereto hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"" is defined in .
2011 Financials
Section 4.1(e)
"" is defined in .
Accepting Lenders
Section 2.7(c)
"" means any Person which is a Borrower under this Agreement pursuant to .
Additional Borrower
Section 2.22
"" is defined in .
Additional Borrower Counterpart
Section 2.22
"" is defined in .
Additional Borrower Termination Notice
Section 2.22(c)
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Global Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" is defined in .
Affected Loan
Section 2.18(f)
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means each of the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Syndication Agents and the Global Documentation Agents.
Agents
"" is defined in .
Agreed Currency
Section 2.20(a)
"" means this Syndicated Facility Agreement, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Agreement
"" means Apache Energy Limited (ACN 009 301 964), a company incorporated in Australia and registered in the State of Western Australia, Australia.
Apache Energy Limited
"" means, for each Lender, such office of such Lender (or of an Affiliate of such Lender) as such Lender may from time to time specify by not less than five Business Days' written notice to the Australian Administrative Agent and Borrower as the office by which its Loans are to be made and/or issued and maintained.
Applicable Lending Office
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means (a) at any time the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P, and Fitch for the Index Debt are equivalent ratings, the level set forth in the chart below under the heading "" (a "") opposite the ratings under the headings "" and "", and (b) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P and Fitch for the Index Debt shall fall within different Levels, the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the highest two ratings, unless the highest two ratings shall fall within different Levels in which case the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the lower of the highest two ratings, , , that for purposes of the foregoing, (i) "" means a rating equal to or more favorable than; "" means a rating equal to or less favorable than; ">" means a rating greater than; "<" means a rating less than; (ii) if Moody's, S&P, or Fitch shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the penultimate sentence appearing before the table below), then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the Applicable Rating Level shall be based on the higher of the two existing ratings; (iii) if only one of Moody's, S&P, and Fitch shall have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the penultimate sentence of this definition), then the Applicable Rating Level shall be the rating that is one Level below the rating established by such party; (iv) if there is no rating for the Index Debt from Moody's, S&P, and Fitch, then the Applicable Rating Level shall equal Level V; and (v) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's, S&P and Fitch for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first announced by the applicable rating agency. Each change in the Applicable Rating Level shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's, S&P or Fitch shall change, or if any such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, Borrower and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rating Level shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation. Changes in the Applicable Rating Level will occur automatically without prior notice.
Applicable Rating Level
Applicable Rating Level
Level
Moody's
S&P/Fitch
provided
however
 
For example, if the Moody's rating is A3, the S&P rating is BBB+, and the Fitch rating is A, Level III shall apply.
"" is defined in .
Arrangers
Article IX
"" has the meaning given in section 128F(9) of the Tax Act.
Associate
"" means Citisecurities Limited (ABN 51 008 489 610) in its capacity as Australian administrative agent for the lenders party to the Australian Credit Agreement and any successor thereto.
Australian Administrative Agent
"" means, with respect to any Borrower, the Chief Executive Officer, the President and Chief Corporate Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of such Borrower, and any officer or employee of such Borrower specified as such to the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent in writing by any of the aforementioned officers of such Borrower, or, with respect to Parent, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the President and Chief Corporate Officer, the President and Chief Operating Officer, the Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and the Senior Vice PresidentTreasury and Administration of Parent, and any officer or employee of Parent specified as such to the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent in writing by any of the aforementioned officers of the Parent.
Authorized Officer
"" means the period from and including the Global Effective Date to but excluding the Maturity Date.
Availability Period
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person becomes the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, or has had a receiver, conservator, trustee, administrator, custodian, assignee for the benefit of creditors or similar Person charged with the reorganization or liquidation of its business appointed for it, or, in the good faith determination of the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent, has taken any action in furtherance of, or consented to, approval of, or acquiescence in, any such proceeding or appointment, that a Bankruptcy Event shall not result solely by virtue of any ownership interest, or the acquisition of any ownership interest, in such Person by a Governmental Authority or instrumentality thereof, , , that such ownership interest does not result in or provide such Person with immunity from the jurisdiction of courts within Australia or from the enforcement of judgments or writs of attachment on its assets or permit such Person (or such Governmental Authority or instrumentality) to reject, repudiate, disavow or disaffirm any contracts or agreements made by such Person.
Bankruptcy Event
provided
provided
further
 
"" means Apache Energy Limited and each other Person that becomes an Additional Borrower pursuant to .
Borrower
Section 2.22
"" means Loans made or continued on the same date and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect.
Borrowing
"" means a request by Borrower for a Borrowing in accordance with , in substantially the form of Exhibit E or any other form approved by the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent.
Borrowing Request
Section 2.3
"" means a weekday on which (a) (for the purpose of determining the LIBO Rate under the second sentence of the definition of "") the relevant financial markets are open in London; (b) (except for the purpose stated in paragraph (a)) banks are open for business in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Hong Kong; and (c) in the case where a payment is to be made, banks are open for business in New York, New York, Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Hong Kong.
Business Day
LIBO Rate
"" means Royal Bank of Canada in its capacity as Canadian administrative agent for the lenders party to the Canadian Credit Agreement and any successor thereto.
Canadian Administrative Agent
"" means Apache Canada Ltd., a corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Alberta, Canada, and each other Person that becomes a borrower under the Canadian Credit Agreement.
Canadian Borrower
"" means that certain Credit Agreement of even date herewith among the Canadian Borrower, the Canadian Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, the Canadian Administrative Agent and the other agents party thereto, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
Canadian Credit Agreement
"" means the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of the Canadian Credit Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Canadian Lenders
"" means the Canadian Credit Agreement, any notes, any guaranties, any assignment agreements, and the agreement with respect to fees, together with all exhibits, schedules and attachments thereto, and all other agreements, documents, certificates, financing statements and instruments from time to time executed and delivered pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing.
Canadian Loan Documents
"" means the consolidated shareholder's equity of Parent and its Subsidiaries plus the consolidated Debt of Parent and its Subsidiaries.
Capital
"" means the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, 42 U.S.C. 9601, et. seq., as amended from time to time.
CERCLA
 
"" means a certificate of Parent and Borrower, executed by an Authorized Officer and delivered to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent, in a form acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent, which requests an extension of the then scheduled Maturity Date pursuant to .
Certificate of Extension
Section 2.7
"" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption of any law, rule, regulation or treaty by any Governmental Authority, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) compliance by any Lender (or, for purposes of , by any Applicable Lending Office of such Lender or by such Lender's holding company, if any) with any rule, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement; provided that, notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all rules, guidelines, or directives concerning capital adequacy or liquidity promulgated by the Bank for International Settlements, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (or any successor or similar authority) or Australia or foreign regulatory authorities, in each case pursuant to Basel III, shall in each case be deemed to be a "" to the extent enacted, adopted, promulgated or issued by any Governmental Authority or otherwise having the force of law, regardless of the date so enacted, adopted, promulgated or issued.
Change in Law
Section 2.17(b)
Change in Law
"" is defined in .
CI Lender
Section 2.23(a)
"" means the commitment of each Combined Lender under the Combined Credit Agreements, as such commitment may be reduced, increased or terminated from time to time pursuant to the Combined Loan Documents and, if any such commitments are no longer in effect under any Combined Credit Agreement, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the outstanding loans for which the applicable commitment is no longer in effect under such Combined Credit Agreement. The initial amount of each Combined Lender's Commitment is set forth on to the applicable Combined Credit Agreement, or in a Assignment and Acceptance (as defined in this U.S. Credit Agreement and the Canadian Credit Agreement) or in a Substitution Certificate pursuant to which such Combined Lender shall have assumed its Combined Commitment, as applicable, or in an applicable Notice of Commitment Increase. The initial aggregate amount of the Combined Lenders' Combined Commitments is $2,300,000,000.
Combined Commitments
Schedule 2.1
"" means this Agreement, the U.S. Credit Agreement and the Canadian Credit Agreement.
Combined Credit Agreements
"" means the Lenders hereunder, the U.S. Lenders and the Canadian Lenders.
Combined Lenders
"" means the Loan Documents, the U.S. Loan Documents and the Canadian Loan Documents.
Combined Loan Documents
"" means the loans made by the Combined Lenders to Borrower, U.S. Borrower and Canadian Borrower pursuant to the Combined Loan Documents.
Combined Loans
 
"" means Combined Lenders having in the aggregate 51% of the aggregate total Combined Commitments under the Combined Loan Documents.
Combined Required Lenders
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Loans in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding up to but not exceeding the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on hereto, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to , (b) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to or pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to , (c) increased from time to time pursuant to , and (d) terminated pursuant to , or . The amount of the Commitment represents such Lender's maximum Credit Exposure hereunder. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on , or in the Substitution Certificate pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable, or in an applicable Notice of Commitment Increase. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $300,000,000.
Commitment
Schedule 2.1
Section 2.9
Section 2.7
Section 10.4
Section 2.23
Sections 4.1
8.2
8.3
Schedule 2.1
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Commitment Increase
Section 2.23(a)
"" has the meaning set forth .
Commitment Increase Effective Date
Section 2.23(b)
"" means the total assets of the Parent and its subsidiaries which would be shown as assets on a consolidated balance sheet of Parent and its subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Assets
"" means (i) the consolidated shareholder's equity of Parent and its Subsidiaries (determined in accordance with GAAP), less (ii) the amount of consolidated intangible assets of Parent and its Subsidiaries, plus (iii) the aggregate amount of any non-cash write downs, on a consolidated basis, by Parent and its Subsidiaries during the term hereof.
Consolidated Tangible Net Worth
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Loans at such time.
Credit Exposure
"" means the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Credit Party
"" of any Person means indebtedness, including capital leases, shown as debt on a consolidated balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Debt
"" is defined in .
Declining Lenders
Section 2.7(c)
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means, as reasonably determined by the Global Administrative Agent in consultation with Borrower, any Lender that (a) has failed, within two (2) Business Days of the date required to be funded or paid, to (i) fund any portion of its Loans or (ii) pay over to any Credit Party any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder, unless, in the case of clause (i) above, such Lender notifies the Global Administrative Agent in writing that such failure is the result of such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent to funding (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) has not been satisfied, (b) has notified the Borrower or any Credit Party in writing, or has made a public statement to the effect, that it does not intend or expect to comply with any of its funding obligations under this Agreement (unless such writing or public statement indicates that such position is based on such Lender's good faith determination that a condition precedent (specifically identified and including the particular default, if any) to funding a loan under this Agreement cannot be satisfied) or generally under other agreements in which it commits to extend credit, (c) has failed, within three (3) Business Days after request by the Global Administrative Agent, acting in good faith, to confirm in a manner reasonably satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent that it will comply with its obligations to fund prospective Loans under this Agreement, that such Lender shall cease to be a Defaulting Lender pursuant to this clause (c) upon (i) the Global Administrative Agent's receipt of such confirmation, and (ii) compliance in full by such Lender with its funding obligations under this Agreement as of the date of such certification (subject to any exception to funding set forth in clause (a) above), or (d) has become the subject of a Bankruptcy Event.
Defaulting Lender
provided
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
"" means all applicable federal, state, provincial, territorial or local statutes, laws, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations, decrees, judgments, injunctions, legally binding notices or legally binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the protection of the environment and planning, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters relating to the exposure of Hazardous Material (including, for example and without limitation, the Environmental Protection Act 1986 (WA), Dangerous Goods Safety Act 2004 (WA), Mining Act 1978 (WA), Protection of the Environment Operations Act 1997 (NSW), Dangerous Goods (Road and Rail Transport) Act 2008 (NSW), Environmentally Hazardous Chemicals Act 1985 (NSW), Waste Avoidance and Resource Recovery Act 2001 (NSW), Environmental Planning & Assessment Act 1979 (NSW), and Environmental Reform (Consequential Provisions) Act 1999 (Cth).
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
 
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Event of Default
Article VIII
"" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "", in either case, based upon the Applicable Rating Level, applicable on such date:
Eurodollar Margin
Eurodollar Margin
 
Each change in the Eurodollar Margin shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. Changes in the Eurodollar Margin will occur automatically without prior notice.
"" means, with respect to any Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise Taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income, in each case, (i) by Australia (or any political subdivision thereof), or by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its Applicable Lending Office is located, or (ii) as the result of any present or former connection between such recipient and the jurisdiction imposing such Tax other than any connection arising from such recipient having executed, delivered, become a party to, performed its obligations under, received payments under, received or perfected a security interest under, engaged in any other transaction pursuant to or enforced any Loan Document or sold or assigned an interest in any Loan or Loan Document, (b) any branch profits Taxes imposed by Australia or any similar Tax imposed by any other jurisdiction described in clause (a) above, and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by Borrower under ), any withholding Tax that is imposed on amounts payable to or for the account of such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new Applicable Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Applicable Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from Borrower with respect to such withholding Tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.19(b)
Section 2.17(e)
Section 2.17(a)
"" means (a) (i) that certain Credit Agreement [U.S. Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among U.S. Borrower and the lenders and agents party thereto; (ii) that certain Credit Agreement [Canadian Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache Canada and the lenders and agents party thereto; and (iii) that certain
Existing Credit Facilities
 
Credit Agreement [Australian Credit Agreement] dated as of May 12, 2005, among Apache Energy Limited and the lenders and agents party thereto, and (b) that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 9, 2006, among U.S. Borrower and the lenders and agents party thereto.
"" is defined in .
Facility Fee
Section 2.12(a)
"" means, for any day, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "", based upon the Applicable Rating Level applicable on such date:
Facility Fee Rate
Facility Fee Rate
 
Each change in the Facility Fee Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. Changes in the Facility Fee Rate will occur automatically without prior notice.
"" means Fitch, Inc. and any affiliate or successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency in the United States.
Fitch
"" means any Lender that is not a resident in Australia for purposes of, the Tax Act. For purposes of this definition, Australia and each state thereof shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied on a basis consistent with the most recent financial statements of Parent, Borrower and their Subsidiaries delivered to the Lenders pursuant to the Combined Loan Documents.
GAAP
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as global administrative agent for the Combined Lenders, and its successors.
Global Administrative Agent
"" means The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Royal Bank of Canada, each in its capacity as documentation agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Global Documentation Agents
"" means a date agreed upon by Parent, Borrower, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent as the date on which the conditions specified in of each Combined Credit Agreement are satisfied (or waived in accordance with of each Combined Credit Agreement).
Global Effective Date
Section 4.1
Section 10.2
 
"" means a notice and certificate of Parent and Borrower properly executed by an Authorized Officer of Parent and Borrower, respectively, addressed to the Combined Lenders and delivered to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent, in sufficient number of counterparts to provide one for each such lender and each agent under each Combined Credit Agreement, whereby Parent certifies satisfaction of all the conditions precedent to the effectiveness under of each Combined Credit Agreement.
Global Effectiveness Notice
Section 4.1
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., each in its capacity as syndication agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Global Syndication Agents
"" means the government of Australia, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state, provincial, territorial or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
"" is defined in .
GST
Section 2.17(f)
"" means that certain Guaranty, dated as of June 4, 2012, by Parent in favor of the Lenders and the other Lender Parties (as defined therein), in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent, as such Guaranty may from time to time be amended, supplemented, restated, reaffirmed or otherwise modified.
Guaranty
Exhibit F
"" means (a) any "hazardous substance," as defined by CERCLA; (b) any "hazardous waste," as defined by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; or (c) any pollutant or contaminant or hazardous, dangerous or toxic chemical, material or substance within the meaning of any other Environmental Law.
Hazardous Material
"" is defined in .
Highest Lawful Rate
Section 10.12
"" of any Person means all (i) Debt, and (ii) guaranties or other contingent obligations in respect of the Debt of any other Person.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, non-credit enhanced, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of Parent that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means a request by Borrower to convert or continue a Borrowing in accordance with , in substantially the form of Exhibit E or any other form approved by the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent.
Interest Election Request
Section 2.8
"" means, with respect to any Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three (3) months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three (3) months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" means the period commencing on the date of any Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day, or, with the consent of the Australian Administrative Agent, such other day, in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months (or, with the consent of each Lender, nine or twelve months) thereafter, as Borrower may elect, , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
JPMorgan
"" is defined in .
Judgment Currency
Section 2.20(b)
"" means the Persons listed on and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to (including any commercial lending institution becoming a party hereto pursuant to a Substitution Certificate) or otherwise by operation of law, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to a Substitution Certificate.
Lenders
Schedule 2.1
Section 10.4
"" means, with respect to any Borrowing for any Interest Period, the applicable British Bankers' Association Settlement Rate for deposits in dollars (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) appearing on the Reuters "" screen (or on any successor or substitute screen provided by Reuters, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such screen of such service, as reasonably determined by the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and Borrower from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Global Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBOR01
LIBO Rate
 
"" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance, charge, or security interest of any kind, granted or created to secure Indebtedness, not including a PPSA Deemed Security Interest; , , that, with respect to any prohibitions of Liens on Property, the following transactions shall not be deemed to create a Lien to secure Indebtedness; (i) production payments (as such term is used in the United States) and (ii) liens required by statute and created in favor of Australian governmental entities to secure partial, progress, advance, or other payments intended to be used primarily in connection with air or water pollution control.
Lien
provided
however
"" means any loan made by the Lenders to Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loan
"" means this Agreement, the Guaranty, any Borrowing Request, any Interest Election Request, any Certificate of Extension, any Substitution Certificate, any Additional Borrower Counterpart, any Additional Borrower Termination Notice, any Notice of Commitment Increase, any election notice, the agreement with respect to fees described in and each other agreement, document or instrument delivered by Borrower or any other Person in connection with this Agreement, as such may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Loan Document
Section 2.12(b)
"" means, as to any matter, that such matter could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect the assets, business, properties, condition (financial or otherwise) of Parent and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole. No matter shall be considered to result, or be expected to result, in a Material Adverse Effect unless such matter causes Parent and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, to suffer a loss or incur a cost equal to at least ten percent (10%) of Parent's Consolidated Tangible Net Worth.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means the earliest of:
Maturity Date
(a) the Original Maturity Date, or such other later date as may result from any extension requested by Borrower and Parent and consented to by some or all of the Lenders pursuant to .
Section 2.7
(b) the date on which the Commitments are terminated in full or reduced to zero pursuant to ; and
Section 2.9
(c) the date on which the Commitments otherwise are terminated in full and reduced to zero pursuant to the terms of , or .
Section 4.1
Section 8.2
Section 8.3
Upon the occurrence of any event described in clause (b) or (c), the Commitments shall terminate automatically and without any further action.
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency in the United States.
Moody's
"" means the amount equal to the product of a CI Lender's increased Commitment or a CI Lender's new Commitment (as applicable) represented as a percentage of the aggregate Commitments after giving effect to the Commitment Increase, times the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Loans immediately prior to giving
New Funds Amount
 
effect to the Commitment Increase, if any, as of a Commitment Increase Effective Date (without regard to any increase in the aggregate principal amount of Loans as a result of borrowings made after giving effect to the Commitment Increase on such Commitment Increase Effective Date).
"" is defined in .
Non-Defaulting Lender
Section 2.18(f)
"" means a notice from the CI Lender in accordance with , in substantially the form of Exhibit I.
Notice of Commitment Increase
Section 2.23
"" means, at any time, the sum of (i) the outstanding principal amount of any Loans plus (ii) all accrued and unpaid interest and Facility Fees and other fees due pursuant to plus (iii) all other obligations of Borrower or any Subsidiary to any Lender or any Agent, whether or not contingent, arising under or in connection with any of the Loan Documents.
Obligations
Section 2.12
"" means an Associate:
Offshore Associate
(a) which is a non-resident of Australia and which does not acquire, or would not acquire, the relevant participation in a facility in carrying on a business in Australia at or through a permanent establishment of the Associate in Australia; or
(b) which is a resident of Australia and which acquires, or would acquire, the relevant participation in a facility in carrying on a business in a country outside Australia at or through a permanent establishment of the Associate in that country,
and, in either case, which is not acquiring the participation in a facility or receiving payment in the capacity of a clearing house, payment agent, custodian, funds manager or responsible entity of a registered scheme.
"" means June 4, 2017.
Original Maturity Date
"" is defined in .
Other Currency
Section 2.20(a)
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
"" means Apache Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Parent
"" is defined in .
Participant Register
Section 10.4(g)
"" is defined in .
Participants
Section 10.4(e)
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, unlimited liability company, joint venture, partnership, firm, association, trust, government, governmental agency or any other entity, whether acting in an individual, fiduciary or other capacity.
Person
 
"" means the Personal Property Securities Act of 2009(Cth).
PPSA
"" means an interest of the kind referred to in section 12(3) of the PPSA where the transaction concerned does not, in substance, secure payment or performance of an obligation.
PPSA Deemed Security Interest
"" means (i) any property owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary, or any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in property, which is considered by Borrower to be capable of producing oil, gas, or minerals in commercial quantities, (ii) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in any refinery, processing or manufacturing plant owned or leased by Borrower or any manufacturing plant owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary, (iii) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in all present and future oil, gas, other liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons, and other minerals now or hereafter produced from any other Property or to which Borrower or any Subsidiary may be entitled as a result of its ownership of any Property, and (iv) all real and personal assets owned or leased by Borrower or any Subsidiary used in the drilling, gathering, processing, transportation, or marketing of any oil, gas, and other hydrocarbons or minerals, except (a) any such real or personal assets related thereto employed in transportation, distribution or marketing or (b) any interest of Borrower or any Subsidiary in, any refinery, processing or manufacturing plant, or portion thereof, which property described in clauses (a) or (b), in the opinion of the board of directors of Borrower, is not a principal plant or principal facility in relation to the activities of Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Property
"" means each then existing Lender immediately prior to giving effect to the Commitment Increase that does not increase its respective Commitment as a result of the Commitment Increase and whose relative percentage of the Commitments shall be reduced after giving effect to such Commitment Increase.
Reducing Percentage Lender
"" means the amount by which a Reducing Percentage Lender's outstanding Loans decrease as of a Commitment Increase Effective Date (without regard to the effect of any borrowings made on such Commitment Increase Effective Date after giving effect to the Commitment Increase).
Reduction Amount
"" is defined in .
Register
Section 10.4
"" means any of Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States from time to time in effect and shall include any successor or other regulations or official interpretations of said Board or any successor Person relating to the extension of credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System or any successor Person.
Regulation U
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"" is defined in .
Replacement Lenders
Section 2.7(c)(ii)
"" means Lenders having in the aggregate 51% of the aggregate total Commitments, or, if the Commitments have been terminated, Lenders holding 51% of the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the outstanding Obligations.
Required Lenders
"" means the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 690, ., as amended from time to time.
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
et seq
"" means any Subsidiary of Parent that owns any asset representing or consisting of an entitlement to production from, or other interest in, reserves of oil, gas or other minerals in place located in the United States or Canada, including, without limitation, with respect to the Parent, the Canadian Borrower, or is otherwise designated as such by Parent in writing to the Global Administrative Agent.
Restricted Subsidiary
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Group, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and any successor thereto that is a nationally recognized rating agency.
S&P
"" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other similar entity of which more than 50% of the outstanding capital stock (or other equity) having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors, managers or similar governing body or management of such corporation, partnership, limited liability company or entity (irrespective of whether or not at the time capital stock (or other equity) or any other class or classes of equity of such corporation, partnership, limited liability company or entity shall or might have voting power upon the occurrence of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person.
subsidiary
"" means any subsidiary of Borrower or Parent; , , that in all events the following Persons shall not be deemed to be Subsidiaries of the Parent or any of its Subsidiaries: Apache Offshore Investment Partnership, a Delaware general partnership, Apache Offshore Petroleum Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, Main Pass 151 Pipeline Company, a Texas general partnership, and Apache 681/682 Joint Venture, a Texas joint venture.
Subsidiary
provided
however
"" is defined in .
Substituting Lender
Section 10.4(b)
"" means a substitution certificate entered into by a Lender and a transferee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Australian Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of Exhibit D or any other form approved by the Australian Administrative Agent.
Substitution Certificate
Section 10.4
"" means the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth).
Tax Act
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
 
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, the borrowing of Loans and the use of the proceeds thereof.
Transactions
"" or "" means the United States of America, its fifty states and the District of Columbia.
United States
U.S.
"" means any Subsidiary of Borrower that is not a Restricted Subsidiary.
Unrestricted Subsidiary
"" means Apache Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and each other Person that becomes a borrower under the U.S. Credit Agreement.
U.S. Borrower
"" means that certain Credit Agreement of even date herewith among the U.S. Borrower, the U.S. Lenders, the Global Administrative Agent, and the other agents party thereto, as it may be amended, supplemented, restated or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time.
U.S. Credit Agreement
"" means the financial institutions listed on the signature pages of the U.S. Credit Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
U.S. Lenders
"" means the U.S. Credit Agreement, any notes, any assignment agreements, and the agreement with respect to fees, together with all exhibits, schedules and attachments thereto, and all other agreements, documents, certificates, financing statements and instruments from time to time executed and delivered pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing.
U.S. Loan Documents
"" means the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001).
USA Patriot Act
Section 1.2.
[Intentionally omitted].
Section 1.3. . The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally
 
Section 1.4. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if Borrower notifies the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent that Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent notify Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP
provided
Section 2.1. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Loans in U.S. Dollars to Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount up to, but not to exceed, the amount of such Lender's Commitment, that such Loans will not result in (a) such Lender's Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) the total Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Subject to the conditions set forth herein, Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Loans. Apache Energy Limited shall be liable for all Obligations, including all Obligations of any Additional Borrower. Any Additional Borrower shall be severally liable for all Obligations which it incurs as further set forth in .
Commitments
provided
Section 10.13
Section 2.2.
Loans and Borrowings.
(a) Each Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
provided
(b) Subject to , each Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Loans as Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Lender at its option may make any Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.14
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 (including any continuation of existing Loans made in connection therewith); that a Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments. There shall not at any time be more than a total of ten (10) Borrowings outstanding.
provided
 
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
Section 2.3. . To request a Borrowing, Borrower shall notify the Australian Administrative Agent of such request by telephone, hand delivery or telecopy or electronic means not later than 1:00 p.m., New York time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Australian Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Australian Administrative Agent and signed by Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Requests for Borrowings
Section 2.2
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term ""; and
Interest Period
(iv) an account or accounts in New South Wales, Australia, Australian Capital Territory, Australia or outside of Australia for payment of the Borrowing previously designated to the Australian Administrative Agent by a written notice executed by two Authorized Officers of Apache Energy Limited and, if applicable, two Authorized Officers of any Additional Borrower.
If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Borrowing, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Australian Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
Section 2.4.
[Intentionally omitted].
Section 2.5.
[Intentionally omitted].
Section 2.6.
Funding of Borrowings.
(a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, New York time, to the account of the Australian Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Australian Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of Borrower maintained in New South Wales, Australia, Australian Capital Territory, Australia or outside of Australia and designated by Borrower from time to time in a written notice to the Australian Administrative Agent executed by (i) two Authorized Officers of Apache Energy Limited and (ii) with respect to a Loan to an Additional Borrower, two Authorized Officers of such Additional Borrower.
 
(b) Unless the Australian Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender one Business Day prior to the proposed time of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Australian Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Australian Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on the requested date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Australian Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and Borrower severally agree to pay to the Australian Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Australian Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, at a rate determined by the Australian Administrative Agent in accordance with the Australian Administrative Agent's cost of funding or (ii) in the case of Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Loans made in such Borrowing. If such Lender pays such amount to the Australian Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing.
Section 2.7.
Extension of Maturity Date and of Commitments.
(a) Subject to the other provisions of this Agreement and that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the total Commitments shall be effective for an initial period from the Global Effective Date to the Original Maturity Date; that the applicable Maturity Date, and concomitantly the total Commitments, may be extended (but not more than twice during the life of this Agreement) for successive one year periods expiring on the date which is one year from the then scheduled Maturity Date. If Parent and Borrower shall request in a Certificate of Extension delivered to the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent at least 45 days but not more than 90 days prior to a date which is an anniversary of the Global Effective Date that the Maturity Date be extended for one year from the then scheduled Maturity Date, then the Australian Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of such request and each Lender shall notify the Australian Administrative Agent, no later than 30 days prior to such anniversary of the Global Effective Date, whether such Lender, in the exercise of its sole discretion, will extend the Maturity Date for such one year period. Any Lender which shall not timely notify the Australian Administrative Agent whether it will extend the Maturity Date shall be deemed to not have agreed to extend the Maturity Date. No Lender shall have any obligation whatsoever to agree to extend the Maturity Date. Any agreement to extend the Maturity Date by any Lender shall be irrevocable, except as provided in .
provided
provided
Section 2.7(c)
(b) If all Lenders notify the Australian Administrative Agent pursuant to of their agreement to extend the Maturity Date, then the Australian Administrative Agent shall so notify the Global Administrative Agent, each Lender and Borrower, and such extension shall be effective without other or further action by any party hereto for such additional one year period.
Section 2.7(a)
 
(c) If Lenders constituting at least the Required Lenders approve the extension of the then scheduled Maturity Date (such Lenders agreeing to extend the Maturity Date herein called the "") and if one or more Lenders shall notify, or be deemed to notify, the Australian Administrative Agent pursuant to that they will not extend the then scheduled Maturity Date (such Lenders herein called the ""), then (A) the Australian Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify Borrower and the Accepting Lenders, (B) the Accepting Lenders shall, upon Borrower's election to extend the then scheduled Maturity Date in accordance with clause (i) or (ii) below, extend the then scheduled Maturity Date and (C) Borrower shall, pursuant to a notice delivered to the Australian Administrative Agent, the Accepting Lenders and the Declining Lenders, no later than the tenth (10th) day following the date by which each Lender is required, pursuant to , to approve or disapprove the requested extension of the total Commitments, either:
Accepting Lenders
Section 2.7(a)
Declining Lenders
Section 2.7(a)
(i) elect to extend the Maturity Date and direct the Declining Lenders to terminate their Commitments, which termination shall become effective on the date which would have been the Maturity Date except for the operation of this Section. On the date which would have been the Maturity Date except for the operation of this Section, (x) Borrower shall deliver a notice of the effectiveness of such termination to the Declining Lenders with a copy to the Australian Administrative Agent and (y) Borrower shall pay in full in immediately available funds all Obligations of Borrower owing to the Declining Lenders, including any amounts required pursuant to , and (z) upon the occurrence of the events set forth in clauses (x) and (y), the Declining Lenders shall each cease to be a Lender hereunder for all purposes, other than for purposes of through , and , and shall cease to have any obligations or any Commitment hereunder, other than to the Agents pursuant to , and the Australian Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Accepting Lenders and Borrower of the new Commitments; or
Section 2.16
Sections 2.15
2.18
Section 2.20
Section 10.3
Article IX
(ii) elect to extend the Maturity Date and, prior to or no later than the then scheduled Maturity Date, (A) to replace one or more of the Declining Lenders with another lender or lenders reasonably acceptable to the Australian Administrative Agent (such lenders herein called the "") and (B) Borrower shall pay in full in immediately available funds all Obligations of Borrower owing to any Declining Lenders which are not being replaced, as provided in clause (i) above; that (x) any Replacement Lender shall purchase, and any Declining Lender shall sell, such Declining Lender's rights and obligations hereunder without recourse or expense to, or warranty by, such Declining Lender being replaced for a purchase price equal to the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Obligations payable to such Declining Lender plus any accrued but unpaid interest on such Obligations and accrued but unpaid fees or other amounts owing in respect of such Declining Lender's Loans and Commitments hereunder, including compensation for any break funding, to the extent required by , and (y) upon the payment of such amounts referred to in clause (x) and the execution of a Substitution Certificate by such Replacement Lender and such Declining Lender, such Replacement Lender shall constitute a Lender hereunder and such Declining Lender being so replaced shall no longer constitute a Lender (other than for purposes of through , and ), and shall no longer have any obligations hereunder, other than to the Agents pursuant to ; or
Replacement Lenders
provided
Section 2.16
Sections 2.15
2.18
Section 2.20
Section 10.3
Article IX
 
(iii) elect to revoke and cancel the extension request in such Certificate of Extension by giving notice of such revocation and cancellation to the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders thereof) no later than the tenth (10th) day following the date by which each Lender is required, pursuant to , to approve or disapprove the requested extension of the Maturity Date, and concomitantly the total Commitments.
Section 2.7(a)
If Borrower fails to timely provide the election notice referred to in this , Borrower shall be deemed to have revoked and cancelled the extension request in the Certificate of Extension and to have elected not to extend the Maturity Date.
Section 2.7(c)
Section 2.8.
Interest Elections.
(a) Each Borrowing shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in the applicable Borrowing Request (or one month if no Interest Period is specified). Thereafter, Borrower may elect to continue such Borrowing and may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. Borrower may, subject to the requirements of , elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing.
Section 2.2(c)
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, Borrower shall notify the Australian Administrative Agent of such election by telephone, hand delivery or telecopy or electronic means by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under if Borrower were requesting a Borrowing resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic or written Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Australian Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request signed by Borrower.
Section 2.3
(c) Each telephonic or written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Section 2.2
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clause (iii) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day; and
(iii) the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "".
Interest Period
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
 
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Australian Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be continued as a Borrowing with an Interest Period of one month. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Australian Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing, unless repaid and provided the Indebtedness has not been accelerated pursuant to , each Borrowing shall be continued as a Borrowing with an Interest Period of one month at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
Section 8.3
Section 2.9.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments.
(a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
(b) Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with , the Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
Section 2.11
(c) Borrower shall notify the Australian Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Australian Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by Borrower (by notice to the Australian Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
Section 2.9(b)
provided
Section 2.10.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
(a) Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to the Australian Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Loan on the Maturity Date or, if earlier, the date on which the Commitment of such Lender relating to such Loan is terminated (except for termination of the Commitment of the assigning Lender pursuant to ).
Section 10.4(b)
 
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Australian Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Australian Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to or shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Australian Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.10(b)
Section 2.10(c)
provided
Section 2.11.
Prepayment of Loans.
(a) Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section.
(b) Borrower shall notify the Australian Administrative Agent by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), hand delivery or telecopy or electronic means of any prepayment hereunder not later than 1:00 p.m., New York time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by , then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with . Promptly following receipt of any such notice, the Australian Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing as provided in . Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by and compensation for break funding, to the extent required by .
provided
Section 2.9
Section 2.9
Section 2.2
Section 2.13
Section 2.16
Section 2.12.
Fees.
(a) Borrower agrees to pay to the Australian Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender on a pro rata basis (based on Commitments) a facility fee (the ""), which Facility Fee shall accrue at the Facility Fee Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Global Effective Date to but excluding the Maturity Date; that, if such Lender continues to have any Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such Facility Fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Credit Exposure from and including the date on
Facility Fee
provided
 
which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Credit Exposure. Accrued Facility Fees shall be payable in arrears on the first day of April, July and October and the second day of January of each year, as applicable, and on the Maturity Date, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Global Effective Date; that any Facility Fees accruing as of the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All Facility Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year) and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(b) Borrower agrees to pay to the Australian Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between Borrower and the Australian Administrative Agent.
(c) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Australian Administrative Agent for distribution, in the case of Facility Fees, to the Lenders. Any and all fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
Section 2.13.
Interest.
(a) [Intentionally omitted].
(b) The Loans comprising each Borrowing shall bear interest on the daily amount outstanding at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Eurodollar Margin.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraph of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to Borrowings with an Interest Period equal to one month as of the date of determination.
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and on the Maturity Date; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan, accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion, and (iv) with respect to any Declining Lender, accrued interest shall be paid upon the termination of the Commitment of such Lender.
provided
(e) Subject to , all interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Australian Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 10.12
 
Section 2.14. . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
(a) the Australian Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Australian Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining their Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; or
(c) the Australian Administrative Agent determines in good faith (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that by reason of circumstances affecting the interbank dollar market generally, deposits in dollars in the London interbank dollar market are not being offered for the applicable Interest Period and in an amount equal to the amount of the Loan requested by Borrower,
then the Australian Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Australian Administrative Agent notifies Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Loans from such Lender then outstanding shall bear interest for the shortest Interest Period which is not unavailable under through , and if no Interest Period is available, at such Lender's cost of funds plus the Eurodollar Margin for the remainder of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan, and (ii) until such time as such situation is no longer the case, any Loan made thereafter shall be made as having the shortest Interest Period which is not unavailable under through , and if no Interest Period is available, at such Lender's cost of funds plus the Eurodollar Margin for the remainder of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan; that if the circumstances giving rise to such notice do not affect all Interest Periods, then Borrowings with respect to the unaffected Interest Periods shall be permitted.
Section 2.14(a)
Section 2.14(c)
Section 2.14(a)
Section 2.14(c)
provided
Section 2.15.
Increased Costs.
(a) If any Change in Law shall:
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
 
(b) If any Lender reasonably determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section (together with the calculation thereof) shall be delivered to Borrower and shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error. Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation; that Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender notifies Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor; further that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
Section 2.16. . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by Borrower pursuant to either or then, in any such event, Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive, together with the calculation thereof, pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to Borrower and to the Australian Administrative Agent and shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error. Borrower shall pay to the Australian Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
Section 2.11(b)
Section 2.7
Section 2.19
 
Section 2.17.
Taxes.
(a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction or withholding for any Taxes; that if Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct or withhold any Taxes from such payments, then (i) Borrower shall make such deduction or withholding, (ii) Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted or withheld to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law, and (iii) if such Tax is an Indemnified Tax or Other Tax, the sum payable by Borrower shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions or withholdings (including deductions and withholdings applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deduction or withholding been made.
provided
(b) In addition, Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) Borrower shall pay the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and each Lender, within 10 days after written demand therefor, the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto (other than any such penalties or interest arising through the failure of the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or Lender to act as a reasonably prudent agent or lender, respectively), whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to Borrower by a Lender, or by either the Australian Administrative Agent or the Global Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive absent demonstrable error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Taxes by Borrower to a Governmental Authority pursuant to this , Borrower shall deliver to the Australian Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Australian Administrative Agent.
Section 2.17
(e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to Borrower (with a copy to the Australian Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
 
(f) The Borrower shall (i) pay any stamp duty arising in connection with any Loan Document and (ii) reimburse any Lender for any goods and services tax levied under the (Cth) ("") that it is liable to pay on a supply made in connection with any Loan Document to the extent the consideration for such supply is not stated to include an amount in respect of such GST; that the Lender must issue a valid tax invoice to the Borrower promptly after the Borrower reimburses such Lender for such amount of GST.
A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999
GST
provided
Section 2.18.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs.
(a) Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it to the Australian Administrative Agent hereunder (whether of principal, interest or fees, or of amounts payable under , or , or otherwise) prior to 1:00 p.m., New York time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. All such payments shall be made to the Australian Administrative Agent, c/o Citibank N.A., 399 Park Avenue, New York, NY USA 10043, for account Citibank N.A., Hong Kong (A/C No. 10990845), SWIFT Code: CITIUS33 Attention: Agency Department, Reference: Apache, except that payments pursuant to , and shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Australian Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars.
Section 2.15
Section 2.16
Section 2.17
Sections 2.15
2.17
10.3
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Australian Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal then due to such parties. If insufficient funds are received due to Borrower's entitlement to withhold amounts on account of Excluded Taxes in relation to a particular Lender, such insufficiency shall not be subject to this but shall be withheld from and shall only affect payments made to such Lender.
Section 2.18(b)
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans; that (i) if any such participations are
provided
 
purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent (x) Borrower may effectively do so under applicable law, and (y) any Lender may effectively do so pursuant to , that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of Borrower in the amount of such participation.
Section 10.8
(d) Unless the Australian Administrative Agent shall have received notice from Borrower at least one Business Day prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Australian Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that Borrower will not make such payment, the Australian Administrative Agent may assume that Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, but is under no obligation to, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Australian Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Australian Administrative Agent, at a rate reasonably determined by the Australian Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to , then the Australian Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), (i) apply any amounts thereafter received by the Australian Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender for the benefit of the Australian Administrative Agent to satisfy such Lender's obligations to it under such Section until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid, and/or (ii) hold any such amounts in a segregated account as cash collateral for, and application to, any future funding obligations of such Lender under any such Section, in the case of each of clauses (i) and (ii) above, in any order as determined by the Australian Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion.
Section 2.18(d)
(f) Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary contained herein, if any Defaulting Lender shall have failed to fund a Loan forming any portion of a Borrowing (each such Loan, an ""), (i) each payment by Borrower on account of the interest on such Borrowing shall be distributed to each Lender that is not a Defaulting Lender (each, a "") pro rata based on the outstanding principal amount of such Borrowing owing to all Non-Defaulting Lenders, and (ii) each prepayment of a Borrowing by Borrower pursuant to shall be distributed (x) to each Non-Defaulting Lender pro rata based on the outstanding principal amount of such Borrowing owing to all Non-Defaulting Lenders, until the principal amount of such Borrowing (other than the Affected Loans) has been repaid in full and (y) to the extent of any remaining amount of such prepayment relating to such Borrowing, to each Lender which has amounts outstanding with respect to such Borrowing pro rata in accordance with such Lender's Applicable Percentage.
Affected Loan
Non-Defaulting Lender
Section 2.11
 
Section 2.19.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
(a) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Applicable Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to transfer its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or transfer (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or transfer.
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 2.15
2.17
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender hereunder, then Borrower may, upon notice to such Lender and the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, require such Lender to transfer and delegate, without recourse or expense to, or warranty by, such Lender (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in ), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to a transferee designated by Borrower and which meets the requirements of that shall assume such obligations (which transferee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such transfer); that (i) Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld or delayed, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the transferee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or Borrower (in the case of all other amounts), (iii) the transferee and transferor shall have entered into a Substitution Certificate, and (iv) in the case of any such transfer resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such transfer will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments.
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 10.4
Section 10.4(b)
provided
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 2.20.
Currency Conversion and Currency Indemnity.
(a) Payments in Agreed Currency. Borrower shall make payment relative to any Obligation in the currency (the "") in which the Obligation was effected. If any payment is received on account of any Obligation in any currency (the "") other than the Agreed Currency (whether voluntarily or pursuant to an order or judgment or the enforcement thereof or the realization of any security or the liquidation of Borrower or otherwise howsoever), such payment shall constitute a discharge of the liability of Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents in respect of such obligation only to the extent of the amount of the Agreed Currency which the relevant Lender or Agent, as the case may be, is able to purchase with the amount of the Other Currency received by it on the Business Day next following such receipt in accordance with its normal procedures and after deducting any premium and costs of exchange.
Agreed Currency
Other Currency
 
(b) Conversion of Agreed Currency into Judgment Currency. If, for the purpose of obtaining or enforcing judgment in any court in any jurisdiction, it becomes necessary to convert into a particular currency (the "") any amount due in the Agreed Currency then the conversion shall be made on the basis of the rate of exchange prevailing on the next Business Day following the date such judgment is given and in any event Borrower shall be obligated to pay the Agents and the Lenders any deficiency in accordance with . For the foregoing purposes "rate of exchange" means the rate at which the relevant Lender or Agent, as applicable, in accordance with its normal banking procedures is able on the relevant date to purchase the Agreed Currency with the Judgment Currency after deducting any premium and costs of exchange.
Judgment Currency
Section 2.20(c)
(c) Circumstances Giving Rise to Indemnity. If (i) any Lender or any Agent receives any payment or payments on account of the liability of Borrower hereunder pursuant to any judgment or order in any Other Currency, and (ii) the amount of the Agreed Currency which the relevant Lender or Agent, as applicable, is able to purchase on the Business Day next following such receipt with the proceeds of such payment or payments in accordance with its normal procedures and after deducting any premiums and costs of exchange is less than the amount of the Agreed Currency due in respect of such obligations immediately prior to such judgment or order, then Borrower on demand shall, and Borrower hereby agrees to, indemnify and save the Lenders and the Agents harmless from and against any loss, cost or expense arising out of or in connection with such deficiency.
(d) Indemnity Separate Obligation. The agreement of indemnity provided for in shall constitute an obligation separate and independent from all other obligations contained in this Agreement, shall give rise to a separate and independent cause of action, shall apply irrespective of any indulgence granted by the Lenders or Agents or any of them from time to time, and shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any judgment or order for a liquidated sum in respect of an amount due hereunder or under any judgment or order.
Section 2.20(c)
Section 2.21. . Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if any Lender becomes a Defaulting Lender, then the following provisions shall apply for so long as such Lender is a Defaulting Lender:
Defaulting Lenders
(a) Fees shall cease to accrue on the Commitment of such Defaulting Lender pursuant to .
Section 2.12
(b) The Commitment and Credit Exposure of such Defaulting Lender shall not be included (in either the calculation of aggregate Commitments, outstanding Obligations or otherwise) in determining whether the Required Lenders have taken or may take any action hereunder (including any consent to any amendment, waiver or other modification pursuant to ); , that this clause (b) shall not apply to the vote of a Defaulting Lender in the case of an amendment, waiver or other modification requiring the consent of such Lender as a Lender affected thereby pursuant to .
Section 10.2
provided
Section 10.2(b)
 
(c) Borrower may elect to replace any Defaulting Lender in accordance with the provisions of .
Section 2.19(b)
Section 2.22. .
Additional Borrowers
(a) A Person which is a Subsidiary which is a resident of, and domiciled in, Australia and who is an Associate of each other Borrower may become an Additional Borrower with respect hereto, and shall be bound by and entitled to the benefits and obligations of this Agreement as a Borrower hereunder to the same extent as any other Additional Borrower, upon the fulfillment of the following conditions:
(i) Resolutions and Officers' Certificates. Such Person shall deliver all the items identified in with respect to such Person.
Section 4.1(a)
(ii) . An Authorized Officer of each Borrower shall have delivered to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent a certificate stating that such Person is a Subsidiary of the Parent which is resident of, and domiciled in, Australia.
Certificate
(iii) . No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
No Default
(iv) . The representations and warranties in hereto are true and correct with respect to such Person, mutatis mutandis, as of the date such Person executes the Additional Borrower Counterpart described in below.
Representations and Warranties
Article III
Section 2.22(a)(v)
(v) . Such Person shall execute an Additional Borrower Counterpart to this Agreement, substantially in the form of Exhibit G (the "") or such other agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent.
Additional Borrower Counterpart
Additional Borrower Counterpart
(vi) . The Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent shall have received legal opinions, dated as of the date such Person executes the Additional Borrower Counterpart described above, addressed to the Agents and the Lenders, having substantially the same coverage as those opinions attached hereto as Exhibits A and B and in form and substance acceptable to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent, in their reasonable discretion.
Opinions of Counsel
(vii) . The Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent shall have approved the addition of such Person as an Additional Borrower, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
Approval
(viii) . Such Person shall provide such evidence as is reasonably requested by either Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent, on behalf of itself or any Lender, or by any Lender to comply with all necessary "know your customer" or other similar checks under all applicable laws and regulations.
Identification Requirements
 
(ix) . The Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and each Lender shall have received prior written notice from an Authorized Officer of Apache Energy Limited of an Additional Borrower becoming party to this Agreement at least five (5) Business Days prior to the date selected for such Additional Borrower to become party to this Agreement.
Notice
(b) Upon fulfillment of the conditions in this , the Global Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of the date that such Person becomes an Additional Borrower hereunder.
Section 2.22(a)
(c) In the event that any Additional Borrower determines that it no longer desires to be a Borrower under this Agreement and so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, such Additional Borrower shall deliver to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent an Additional Borrower Termination Notice, substantially in the form of (the ""), executed by such Additional Borrower and Apache Energy Limited. Within five (5) Business Days following receipt of the Global Administrative Agent's and Australian Administrative Agent's consent to the removal of such Additional Borrower, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, such Additional Borrower shall pay to the Australian Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the full amount of any outstanding Loan made to such Additional Borrower in accordance with the prepayment provisions of . Upon receipt by the Australian Administrative Agent of all amounts due from such Additional Borrower, the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent shall acknowledge the removal of such Additional Borrower, and the termination of any obligations of such Additional Borrower under this Agreement, by delivering their countersignatures to the applicable Additional Borrower Termination Notice, following which delivery, such Additional Borrower shall cease to be a Borrower under this Agreement.
Exhibit H
Additional Borrower Termination Notice
Section 2.11
Section 2.23. .
Increase in Commitments
(a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower shall have the right to cause from time to time an increase in the Commitments of the Lenders by up to $150,000,000 in the aggregate (a "") by adding to this Agreement one or more additional financial institutions that are not already Lenders hereunder and that are consented to by the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) or by allowing one or more existing Lenders to increase their respective Commitments (each a ""); , , that (i) at the time of the Commitment Increase, no Event of Default shall have occurred which is continuing, (ii) no such Commitment Increase shall cause the total amount of the Commitments to exceed U.S.$450,000,000, (iii) no Lender's Commitment shall be increased without such Lender's prior written consent (which consent may be given or withheld in such Lender's sole and absolute discretion), (iv) if, on the effective date of such increase, any Loans have been funded, then the Borrower shall be obligated to pay any breakage fees or costs in connection with the reallocation of such outstanding Loans, and (v) each CI Lender shall execute a Notice of Commitment Increase and deliver such executed notice to the Australian Administrative Agent.
Commitment Increase
CI Lender
provided
however
 
(b) Any Commitment Increase must be requested by written notice from the Borrower to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent (a "") in the form of attached hereto. Once the Notice of Commitment Increase is fully-executed, such notice and such Commitment Increase shall be effective on the proposed effective date set forth in such notice (not less than five (5) Business Days after receipt by the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent) or on another date agreed to by the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Borrower (such date referred to as the "").
Notice of Commitment Increase
Exhibit I
Commitment Increase Effective Date
(c) On each Commitment Increase Effective Date, to the extent that there are Loans outstanding as of such date, (i) each CI Lender shall, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, deliver to the Australian Administrative Agent such CI Lender's New Funds Amount, which amount, for each such CI Lender, shall constitute Loans made by such CI Lender to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement on such Commitment Increase Effective Date, (ii) the Australian Administrative Agent shall, by wire transfer of immediately available funds, pay to each then Reducing Percentage Lender its Reduction Amount, which amount, for each such Reducing Percentage Lender, shall constitute a prepayment by the Borrower pursuant to , ratably in accordance with the respective principal amounts thereof, of the principal amounts of all then outstanding Loans of such Reducing Percentage Lender, and (iii) the Borrower shall be responsible to pay to each Lender any breakage fees or costs in connection with the reallocation of any outstanding Loans.
Section 2.10
(d) Each Commitment Increase shall become effective on its Commitment Increase Effective Date and upon such effectiveness (i) the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent shall record in its records the CI Lender's information as provided in the Notice of Commitment Increase and pursuant to an Administrative Questionnaire in form satisfactory to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent that shall be executed and delivered by each CI Lender to the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent on or before the Commitment Increase Effective Date, (ii) Schedule 2.1 hereof shall be amended and restated to set forth all Lenders (including any CI Lenders) that will be Lenders hereunder after giving effect to such Commitment Increase (which shall be set forth in Annex I to the applicable Notice of Commitment Increase) and the Australian Administrative Agent shall distribute to each Lender (including each CI Lender) a copy of such amended and restated Schedule 2.1, and (iii) each CI Lender identified on the Notice of Commitment Increase for such Commitment Increase shall be a "" for all purposes under this Agreement.
Lender
Section 2.24. .
Section 128F Public Offer
(a) Each Arranger undertakes, represents and warrants to the Borrower as follows.
 
(i) On behalf of the Borrower, the Arrangers collectively have made or will make before the first utilization date invitations for participation in the facility to at least ten parties, each of whom the Arrangers' relevant officers involved in the transaction on a day to day basis believe carries on the business of providing finance or investing or dealing in securities in the course of operating in financial markets, for the purposes of section 128F(3A)(a)(i) of the Tax Act, and each of whom has been disclosed to the Borrower.
(ii) At least ten of the parties to whom the Arrangers collectively have made or will make invitations referred to are not, to the knowledge of the relevant officers of the Arrangers involved in the transaction, Associates of any of the others of those ten offerees.
Section 2.24(a)(i)
(iii) It has not made and will not make offers or invitations referred to in to parties whom its relevant officers involved in the transaction on a day to day basis are aware are Offshore Associates of the Borrower.
Section 2.24(a)(i)
(b) Borrower confirms that none of the potential offerees whose names were disclosed to it by the Arrangers before the date of this Agreement were known or suspected by it to be an Offshore Associate of the Borrower or an Associate of any other such offeree and it will immediately advise the Arrangers or the Australian Administrative Agent if the parties disclosed to it by the Arrangers are known or suspected by it to be an Offshore Associate of the Borrower or an Associate of any other offeree.
(c) Each Lender represents and warrants to Borrower that it is, and at the time of the first utilization date, it will be carrying on the business of providing finance, or investing or dealing in securities, in the course of operating in financial markets.
(d) In connection with any Loan provided by it, each of Lender will provide to the Borrower when reasonably requested by the Borrower any factual information in its possession or which it is reasonably able to provide to assist the Borrower to demonstrate (based upon tax advice received by the Borrower) that the public offer test under section 128F of the Tax Act has been satisfied where to do so will not in the Arranger's or the Lender's reasonable opinion breach any law or regulation or any duty of confidence.
In order to induce the Lenders and the Agents to enter into this Agreement and the Lenders to make Loans hereunder, Borrower represents and warrants unto the Agents and each Lender as set forth in this .
Article III
Section 3.1. . Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries is a corporation or other legal entity, in either case duly incorporated or otherwise properly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization and has all requisite authority, permits and approvals, and is in good standing to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted where the failure to so qualify would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Organization
 
Section 3.2. . The execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of this Agreement and each other Loan Document executed or to be executed by it, are within Borrower's corporate, limited liability company, partnership or other similar powers, as applicable, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate, limited liability company, partnership or other similar action on behalf of it, and do not (a) contravene Borrower's constitution; or (b) contravene any material contractual restriction, law or governmental regulation or court decree or order binding on or affecting Borrower or any Subsidiary. This Agreement constitutes, and each other Loan Document executed by Borrower will, on the due execution and delivery thereof, constitute, the legal, valid and binding obligations of Borrower enforceable in accordance with their respective terms subject as to enforcement only to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditor rights generally and to general principles of equity.
Authorization and Validity
Section 3.3. . No authorization or approval or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or other Person is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by Borrower of this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Neither Parent or Borrower nor any of their Subsidiaries is an "investment company," within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
Government Approval and Regulation
Section 3.4. . Borrower administers a defined benefit superannuation fund (as described in the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (the "") and Parent, Borrower and their Subsidiaries liabilities under such fund do not in the aggregate exceed $150,000,000.
Superannuation Scheme
SIS Act
Section 3.5. . Borrower is not engaged in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock, and no proceeds of any Loans will be used for a purpose which violates, or would be inconsistent with, Regulation U. Terms for which meanings are provided in Regulations U are used in this Section with such meanings.
Regulation U
Section 3.6. . Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has to the best knowledge of Borrower after due investigation filed all tax returns and reports required by law to have been filed by it and has paid all taxes and governmental charges thereby shown to be owing, except any such taxes or charges which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP shall have been set aside on its books or which the failure to file or pay could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Taxes
Section 3.7. . hereto contains an accurate list of all of the presently existing Subsidiaries, including, without limitation, Restricted Subsidiaries of Borrower as of the date of this Agreement, setting forth their respective jurisdictions of incorporation or organization and the percentage of their respective capital stock or, the revenue share attributable to the general and limited partnership interests, as the case may be, owned by Borrower or other Subsidiaries. All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of such Subsidiaries which are corporations have been duly authorized and issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Subsidiaries; Restricted Subsidiaries
Schedule 3.7
Section 3.8. . As of the Global Effective Date, no Default or Event of Default exits.
No Default or Event of Default
 
Section 4.1. . This Agreement shall become effective upon the prior or concurrent satisfaction of each of the conditions precedent set forth in this .
Effectiveness
Section 4.1
(a) . The Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received from Borrower a certificate, dated the Global Effective Date, of the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of Borrower as to (i) resolutions of its governing board, then in full force and effect authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each other Loan Document to be executed by it; (ii) the incumbency and signatures of those of its officers authorized to act with respect to this Agreement and each other Loan Document executed by it; and (iii) its constitution; upon which certificates each Lender may conclusively rely until it shall have received a further certificate of an authorized officer of Borrower canceling or amending such prior certificate.
Resolutions and Officers Certificates
(b) . The Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Parent and Borrower, stating that either (i) Parent or its Subsidiaries have repaid in full and terminated the Existing Credit Facilities concurrently with the effectiveness of the Combined Credit Agreements or (ii) the Existing Credit Facilities have been terminated in full prior to the effectiveness of the Combined Credit Agreements.
Existing Facilities
(c) . The Global Administrative Agent shall have received opinions, dated the Global Effective Date, addressed to the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, the other Agents and all Lenders, from (i) Clifford Chance LLP, counsel to Borrower, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, and (ii) Thompson & Knight LLP, U.S. counsel to Borrower, in substantially the form attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Opinions of Counsel
(d) . The Australian Administrative Agent shall have received for its own account, or for the account of each Lender and other Agent, as the case may be, all fees, costs and expenses due and payable pursuant hereto.
Closing Fees and Expenses
(e) . The Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, stating that (i) the audited consolidated financial statements of Parent and its Subsidiaries for fiscal year 2011 and (ii) the report and accompanying financial statements of Parent, Borrower and its Subsidiaries for fiscal year 2011 (collectively, the "2011 Financials") fairly present Parent's and Borrower's consolidated financial condition and results of operations and that prior to the Global Effective Date no material adverse change in the condition or operations of Parent or Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, from that reflected in the 2011 Financials has occurred and is continuing.
Financial Statements
 
 
(f) . In the ordinary course of its business, Borrower conducts an ongoing review of the effect of existing Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in the course of which it attempts to identify and evaluate associated liabilities and costs (including, without limitation, any capital or operating expenditures required for clean-up or closure of properties presently or previously owned, any capital or operating expenditures required to achieve or maintain compliance with environmental protection standards imposed by law or as a condition of any license, permit or contract, any related constraints on operating activities, including any periodic or permanent shutdown of any facility or reduction in the level of or change in the nature of operations conducted thereat and any actual or potential liabilities to third parties, including employees, and any related costs and expenses). On the basis of this review, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, stating that after such review Borrower has reasonably concluded that existing Environmental Laws are unlikely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or that Borrower has established adequate reserves in respect of any required clean-up or other remediation.
Environmental Warranties
(g) . The Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received the Global Effectiveness Notice.
Global Effectiveness Notice
(h) . The Australian Administrative Agent shall have received copies of the executed (i) U.S. Credit Agreement and the other U.S. Loan Documents and (ii) Canadian Credit Agreement and the other Canadian Loan Documents.
Other Combined Credit Agreements
(i) . The Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received an executed Guaranty for Borrower.
Guaranty
(j) . The Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, signed by an Authorized Officer of Parent, stating that no litigation, arbitration, governmental proceeding, Tax claim, dispute or administrative or other proceeding shall be pending or, to the knowledge of Parent, threatened against Parent or any of its Subsidiaries which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which purports to affect the legality, validity or enforceability of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Litigation
(k) . The Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received such other instruments and documents as any of the Agents or their counsel may have reasonably requested.
Other Documents
The Australian Administrative Agent shall notify Borrower, the other Agents and the Lenders of the Global Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to ) at or prior to 3:00 p.m., New York, New York time, on June 30, 2012 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time).
Section 10.2
Section 4.2. . The obligation of each Lender to fund any Loan which results in an increase in the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans under this Agreement on the occasion of any Borrowing shall be subject to the satisfaction of each of the conditions precedent set forth in this .
All Loans
Section 4.2
 
(a) . Both before and after giving effect to any Borrowing, the following statements shall be true and correct: (1) the representations and warranties set forth in shall be true and correct with the same effect as if then made (unless stated to relate solely to an earlier date, in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct as of such earlier date); and (2) no Default or Event of Default shall have then occurred and be continuing.
Compliance with Warranties and No Default
Article III
(b) . The Australian Administrative Agent shall have received a Borrowing Request for any Borrowing.
Borrowings
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and all Obligations shall have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 5.1. . Borrower will furnish, will cause to be furnished or will assist Parent in furnishing, to each Lender, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent copies of the following financial statements, reports, notices and information:
Financial Reporting and Notices
(a) within 90 days after the end of each Fiscal Year of Borrower, a copy of the financial statements for Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, including therein consolidated balance sheets of Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and consolidated statements of earnings and cash flow of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal year, all prepared in accordance with GAAP in each case certified by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, such signature deemed to be a certification that such financial statements present fairly in accordance with GAAP the financial position of Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
(b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of Borrower commencing with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2012, unaudited consolidated balance sheets of Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal quarter and consolidated statements of earnings and cash flow of Borrower and its Subsidiaries for such fiscal quarter and for the period commencing at the end of the previous fiscal year and ending with the end of such fiscal quarter, all prepared in accordance with GAAP certified by an Authorized Officer of Borrower, such signature deemed to be a certification that such financial statements present fairly in accordance with GAAP the financial position of Borrower and its Subsidiaries;
(c) together with the financial statements described in (a) and (b) above, a compliance certificate, in substantially the form of Exhibit C or any other form approved by the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, executed by an Authorized Officer of Parent, an Authorized Officer of Apache Energy Limited and an Authorized Officer of any Additional Borrower;
(d) within five (5) days after the occurrence of each Default, a statement of an Authorized Officer of Parent and an Authorized Officer of Borrower setting forth details of such Default and the action which Parent and Borrower have taken and propose to take with respect thereto;
 
(e) promptly after the sending or filing thereof, copies of all material public filings, reports and communications from Parent or Borrower, and all reports and registration statements which Parent or Borrower or any of their Subsidiaries files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, any national securities exchange or any federal securities regulatory body in Australia; and
(f) such other information respecting the financial condition or operations of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries as any Lender through the Australian Administrative Agent may from time to time reasonably request.
(g) Documents required to be delivered pursuant to this may be delivered electronically and shall be deemed to have been so delivered on the date (i) on which Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto, on its website (located on the date hereof at www.apachecorp.com) or (ii) on which such documents are posted on Borrower's behalf on IntraLinks or another relevant website, if any, to which each Lender, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial third-party website or whether sponsored by the Global Administrative Agent); that, Borrower shall notify the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent of the posting of any such document and the Global Administrative Agent and Australian Administrative Agent shall in turn give the Lenders notice of such posting; and further that, if requested by the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent, the Compliance Certificate to be delivered under shall also be delivered in a tangible, physical version or in .pdf format.
Section 5.1
provided
provided
Section 5.1(c)
Section 5.2. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules, regulations and orders where noncompliance therewith may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, except where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings.
Compliance with Laws
Section 5.3. .
[Intentionally omitted]
Section 5.4. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, maintain or cause to be maintained with responsible insurance companies (subject to self-insured retentions) insurance with respect to its properties and business against such casualties and contingencies and of such types and in such amounts as is customary in the case of similar businesses.
Insurance
Section 5.5. . Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, keep books and records which accurately reflect all of its business affairs and transactions and permit the Australian Administrative Agent or the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents and each Lender through the Australian Administrative Agent or the Global Administrative Agent or any of their respective authorized representatives, during normal business hours and at reasonable intervals, to visit all of its offices, to discuss its financial
Books and Records
 
matters with its officers and to examine (and, at the expense of the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or such other Agent or Lender or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, at the expense of Borrower, photocopy extracts from) any of its books or other records.
Section 5.6. . Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, use the proceeds of the Loans for Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' general corporate purposes.
Use of Proceeds
Section 5.7. . It is a condition precedent to the operation of this that Borrower has submitted a Borrowing Request to the Australian Administrative Agent.
Borrowing Request
Article V
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and all Obligations shall have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 6.1. . Parent will not permit its ratio (expressed as a percentage) of (i) the consolidated Debt of Parent and its Subsidiaries to (ii) Capital to be greater than 60% at the end of any fiscal quarter beginning with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2012.
Ratio of Total Debt to Capital
Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and all Obligations shall have been paid in full and unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 7.1. .
[Intentionally omitted]
Section 7.2. . Borrower will not liquidate or dissolve, amalgamate with, consolidate with, or merge into or with, any other Person unless (a) Borrower is the survivor of such amalgamation, merger or consolidation, and (b) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would occur after giving effect thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prohibit any transfer of any assets from any Borrower to any Subsidiary of such Borrower, from any Subsidiary of a Borrower to such Borrower or from a Subsidiary of a Borrower to another Subsidiary of such Borrower.
Mergers
Section 7.3. .
[Intentionally omitted]
Section 7.4. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into, or cause, suffer or permit to exist any arrangement or contract with any of its other Affiliates unless such arrangement or contract or group of arrangements or contracts, as the case may be, are conducted on an arms-length basis.
Transactions with Affiliates
 
Section 7.5. . Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any agreement (excluding this Agreement or any other Loan Document) limiting the ability of Borrower to amend or otherwise modify this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Restrictive Agreements
Section 7.6. . Parent will not, and will not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, guaranty any Indebtedness not included in the consolidated Debt of Parent and its Subsidiaries in an aggregate outstanding principal amount at any time exceeding $150,000,000.
Guaranties
Section 8.1. . Each of the following events or occurrences described in this shall constitute an "":
Listing of Events of Default
Section 8.1
Event of Default
(a) Non-Payment of Obligations. Borrower shall default in the payment or prepayment when due of any principal of any Loan, or Borrower shall default (and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of five (5) Business Days) in the payment when due of any interest, fee or of any other obligation hereunder.
(b) Breach of Warranty. Any representation or warranty of Borrower made or deemed to be made hereunder or in any other Loan Document or any other writing or certificate furnished by or on behalf of Borrower to the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent, any other Agent or any Lender for the purposes of or in connection with this Agreement or any such other Loan Document is or shall be false or misleading when made in any material respect.
(c) Non-Performance of Covenants and Obligations. Borrower or Parent shall default in the due performance and observance of any of its obligations under or under .
Section 7.2
Article VI
(d) Non-Performance of Other Covenants and Obligations. Borrower or Parent shall default in the due performance and observance of any other agreement contained herein or in any other Loan Document, and such default shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given to Borrower by the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent, or the Required Lenders.
(e) Default on Other Indebtedness. A default shall occur in the payment when due (subject to any applicable grace period), whether by acceleration or otherwise, of any direct payment obligation of Parent, Borrower or any of their Restricted Subsidiaries in any amount in excess of $150,000,000.
(f) [Intentionally omitted].
(g) Administration, Winding Up, Arrangements and Insolvency. Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries shall (a) become or under legislation is presumed or taken to be insolvent or generally fail to pay, or admit in writing its inability or unwillingness to generally
 
pay, debts as they become due; (b) apply for, consent to, or acquiesce in, the appointment of a trustee, receiver, receiver and manager, sequestrator, liquidator, provisional liquidator, administrator or other custodian for Borrower, or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or any substantial part of the property of any thereof, or make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; (c) in the absence of such application, consent or acquiescence, permit or suffer to exist the appointment of an administrator, trustee, receiver, receiver and manager, sequestrator, liquidator, provisional liquidator, administrator or other custodian for Borrower, or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or for a substantial part of the property of any thereof, and such administrator, trustee, receiver, receiver and manager sequestrator, liquidator, provisional liquidator, administrator or other custodian shall not be discharged within 60 days, that Borrower and each Restricted Subsidiary hereby expressly authorizes the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent, each other Agent and each Lender to appear in any court conducting any relevant proceeding during such 60-day period to preserve, protect and defend their rights under the Loan Documents; (d) permit or suffer to exist the commencement of any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, debt arrangement, compromise or composition with or assignment for the benefit of its creditors or a class of them, or other case or proceeding under any bankruptcy or insolvency law, or any dissolution, winding up, administration or liquidation proceeding, in respect of Borrower or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and, if any such case or proceeding is not commenced by Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary, such case or proceeding shall be consented to or acquiesced in by Borrower or such Restricted Subsidiary or shall result in the entry of an order for relief or shall remain for 60 days undismissed, that Borrower and each Restricted Subsidiary hereby expressly authorizes the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent, and each Lender to appear in any court conducting any such case or proceeding during such 60-day period to preserve, protect and defend their rights under the Loan Documents; or (e) take any corporate or partnership action authorizing, or in furtherance of, any of the foregoing.
provided
provided
(h) Judgments. Any judgment or order for the payment of money in an amount of $150,000,000 or more in excess of valid and collectible insurance in respect thereof or in excess of an indemnity with respect thereto reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders shall be rendered against Parent, Borrower or any of their Restricted Subsidiaries and either (a) enforcement proceedings shall have been commenced by any creditor upon such judgment or order, or (b) such judgment shall have become final and non-appealable and shall have remained outstanding for a period of 60 consecutive days.
(i) Change in Control. Parent fails to own or control, directly or indirectly, all of the voting shares of Borrower.
(j) Event of Default under other Combined Loan Documents. Any "" as defined in the U.S. Loan Documents or the Canadian Loan Documents shall occur; that the occurrence of a "" as defined in the U.S. Loan Documents or the Canadian Loan Documents shall constitute a Default under this Agreement; further that if such "" is cured or waived under the U.S. Loan Documents or the Canadian Loan Documents, as applicable, then such "" shall no longer constitute a Default under this Agreement.
Event of Default
provided
Default
provided
Default
Default
 
(k) Enforcement Against Assets. A receiver, receiver and manager or similar officer is appointed to, Liens are enforced over or distresses, attachments or other executions are levied or enforced over all or any of the assets and undertaking of Borrower in excess of $150,000,000 in the aggregate.
Section 8.2. . If any Event of Default described in shall occur, the Commitments (if not theretofore terminated) shall automatically terminate and the outstanding principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all other obligations hereunder shall automatically be and become immediately due and payable, without notice or demand. Without limiting the foregoing, the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to exercise any and all other remedies available to them under the Loan Documents and applicable law.
Action if Administration, Winding Up, Arrangements and Insolvency
Section 8.1(g)
Section 8.3. . If any Event of Default (other than any Event of Default described in ) shall occur for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary, and be continuing, the Australian Administrative Agent, upon the direction of the Required Lenders, shall by notice to Borrower declare all of the outstanding principal amount of the Loans and all other obligations hereunder to be due and payable and the Commitments (if not theretofore terminated) to be terminated, whereupon the full unpaid amount of such Loans and other obligations shall be and become immediately due and payable, without further notice, demand or presentment, and the Commitments shall terminate. Without limiting the foregoing, the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to exercise any and all other remedies available to them under the Loan Documents and applicable law.
Action if Other Event of Default
Section 8.2
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as Global Administrative Agent, Citisecurities Limited (ABN 51 008 489 610) as Australian Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A as Global Syndication Agents, and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc and Royal Bank of Canada as Global Documentation Agents, and authorizes each such Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to such Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
Any bank serving as an Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not an Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not an Agent hereunder.
Where the Australian Administrative Agent provides services in connection with the administration of the Loans, that is when it calculates rates and amounts, keeps records, keeps the register, receives and distributes payments and information received under (Financial Reporting and Notices) and under this Agreement and receives and deals with Borrowing Requests and Interest Election Requests, it does not provide those services as agent for the Arranger or the Lenders, but as principal, but the remainder of this still applies.
Section 5.1
Article IX
 
The Agents shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Agents shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing (the use of the term "agent" herein and in the other Loan Documents with reference to the Agents is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any applicable law; rather, such term is used merely as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between independent contracting parties), (b) each Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that such Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, each Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as such Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. Each Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. Each Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to such Agent by Borrower or a Lender, and such Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to such Agent. None of the Persons identified on the facing page of this Agreement as the "" (the ""), the Global Documentation Agents or the Global Syndication Agents shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement or any other Combined Loan Document other than, except in the case of the Arrangers, those applicable to all Lenders as such.
Section 10.2
Section 10.2
Article IV
Joint Lead Arrangers and Joint Bookrunners
Arrangers
The Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the other Agents may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
 
Any Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by such Agent. Any Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of such Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as an Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders and Borrower. Upon any such resignation, Borrower shall have the right, in consultation with the Combined Required Lenders, to appoint one of the Lenders as a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by Borrower and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or Sydney, Australia, respectively, or an Affiliate of any such bank. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent, and the retiring Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by Borrower to a successor Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between Borrower and such successor. After the Global Administrative Agent's or Australian Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Global Administrative Agent or Australian Administrative Agent, respectively.
Section 10.3
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
 
Section 10.1. . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
Notices
(a) if to Borrower or any Additional Borrower, to:
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
Attention: Matthew W. Dundrea
Senior Vice PresidentTreasury and Administration
Telephone: (713) 296-6640
Facsimile: (713) 296-6458
with a copy to:
Assistant Treasurer
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
Telephone: (713) 296-6642
Facsimile: (713) 296-6477
and with copy to:
Executive Vice President and General Counsel
Apache Corporation
2000 Post Oak Boulevard, Suite 100
Houston, Texas 77056-4400
Telephone: (713) 296-6204
Facsimile: (713) 296-6458
(b) if to the Global Administrative Agent, to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
Loan & Agency Services Group
1111 Fannin Street, 10th Floor
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Bejaye E. Ilegbodu
Telephone: (713) 750-4147
Facsimile: (713) 427-6307
 
with a copy to:
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
707 Travis Street, 12th Floor North
Houston, Texas 77002
Attention: Debra Hrelja
Telephone: (713) 216-4039
Facsimile: (713) 216-8870
(c) if to the Australian Administrative Agent, to: [Note: Please confirm Australian Administrative Agent contact information.]
Citisecurities Limited (ABN 51 008 489 610)
Level 23, 2 Park Street
Sydney N.S.W. 2000
Australia
Attention: Agency/Maria Mills/Trevor Dutton
E-mail: maria.mills@citigroup.com
E-mail: trevor.dutton@citigroup.com
Telephone: 61 2 8225 2066/2455 (direct lines)
Switch No: 61 2 8225 1000
Facsimile: 61 2 8225 5244
with a copy to:
Citicorp International Limited
9/F., Two Harbourfront
22 Tak Fung Street
Hunghom, Kowloon
Hong Kong
Attention: Eros Lai/Michelle Chong
E-mail: eros.lai@citi.com
E-mail: michelle.chong@citi.com
E-mail: regionalloansagency@citi.com
Telephone: +852 2306 6612/8090
Facsimile: +852 2621 3183/4
(d) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) provided to the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and Borrower or as set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Notices and other communications between the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Australian Administrative Agent; that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to unless otherwise agreed by the Australian Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Australian Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
Article II
provided
 
Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall (i) if received by the recipient on or before 5:00 p.m., New York City time, be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt or (ii) if received by the recipient after 5:00 p.m., New York City time, be deemed to have been given on the day following the date of receipt.
Section 10.2. .
Waivers; Amendments
(a) No failure or delay by the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or consent to any departure by Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective except in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
(b) Any of the Combined Loan Documents or any provision thereof may be waived, amended or modified pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Borrower and the Combined Required Lenders or by Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent with the consent of the Combined Required Lenders; that the same waiver, amendment or modification is requested by Parent in connection with each of the Combined Credit Agreements; and further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of (i) the Lenders described in the first proviso of without the prior written consent of each Lender affected thereby and (ii) the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent without the prior written consent of the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent, respectively.
provided
provided
Section 10.2(c)
(c) Except as provided for in above, neither this Agreement nor any other Loan Document nor any provision hereof or thereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by Borrower and the Required Lenders or by Borrower and the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender or the Commitments without the written consent of such Lender or each Lender, respectively, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of
Section 10.2(b)
provided
 
the principal amount of any Loan, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change or  in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) release any Guaranty, without the written consent of each Lender, or (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "", "" or any other provision hereof or thereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or thereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder or thereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent hereunder or thereunder without the prior written consent of the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent, respectively; that in the event that any Additional Borrower elects to terminate its status as an Additional Borrower under this Agreement and delivers a properly executed Borrower Termination Notice pursuant to , such termination and release of such Additional Borrower from its Obligations under this Agreement shall require only the consent of the Global Administrative Agent and the Australian Administrative Agent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Section 2.18(b)
(c)
Required Lenders
Combined Required Lenders
provided
provided further
Section 2.22(c)
Section 10.3. .
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(a) Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Arrangers, the Agents and their Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Agents, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Agents or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Agents or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or this Agreement.
(b) Borrower shall indemnify the Agents, the Arrangers and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an ""), , against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel (or a solicitor and his own client basis) for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or the actual or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any
Indemnitee
WHETHER OR NOT RELATED TO ANY NEGLIGENCE OF THE INDEMNITEE
 
Environmental Liability related in any way to Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (i) resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (ii) arise in connection with any issue in litigation commenced by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against any Indemnitee for which a final judgment is entered in favor of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries against such Indemnitee.
provided
(c) To the extent that Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Global Administrative Agent or the Australian Administrative Agent, respectively.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, (i) Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, and (ii) Agents and Lenders shall not assert, and hereby waive, any claim against Borrower, in each case on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby (including, without limitation, any Loan Document), the Transactions or any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof, except for any such claim arising from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or the Borrower, as applicable; that, notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this sentence shall limit the Borrower's indemnity obligations with respect to claims asserted by Persons (other than the Agents and the Lenders) to the extent set forth in this .
provided
Section 10.3
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than thirty (30) days after written demand therefor.
Section 10.4. .
Successors and Transferees
(a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and transferees permitted hereby, except that Borrower may not transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted transfer by Borrower without such consent shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and transferees permitted hereby and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Global Administrative Agent, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
 
(b) Any Lender may transfer to one or more bank or other entities which are not Offshore Associates of the Borrower ("") all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that (i) each of U.S. Borrower, Borrower, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent must give their prior written consent to such transfer (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (ii) except in the case of a transfer to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or a transfer of the entire remaining amount of the transferring Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the transferring Lender subject to each such transfer (determined as of the date the Substitution Certificate with respect to such transfer is delivered to the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent) shall be in increments of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 unless each of Borrower, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent otherwise consent, (iii) each partial transfer shall be made as a transfer of a proportionate part of all the transferring Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (iv) the parties to each transfer shall execute and deliver to the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent a Substitution Certificate, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 to the Australian Administrative Agent, and (v) the Substituting Lender, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; and further that any consent of U.S. Borrower and Borrower otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under has occurred and is continuing. Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Substitution Certificate the Substituting Lender thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest transferred by such Substitution Certificate, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the transferring Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest transferred by such Substitution Certificate, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of a Substitution Certificate covering all of the transferring Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , , and ). Any transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section.
Substituting Lender
provided
provided
Section 8.1
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.20
10.3
(c) The Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in Sydney, Australia, and The City of New York, respectively, a copy of each Substitution Certificate delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and Borrower, the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
 
(d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Substitution Certificate executed by an transferring Lender and a Substituting Lender, the Substituting Lender's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the Substituting Lender shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such transfer required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall accept such Substitution Certificate and record the information contained therein in the Register and will provide prompt written notice to Borrower of the effectiveness of such Substitution Certificate. No transfer shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(e) Any Lender may, without the consent of Borrower, the Australian Administrative Agent or the Global Administrative Agent, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities which are not Offshore Associates of the Borrower (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iii) Borrower, the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, and (iv) if such Participant is not a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, such Lender shall have given notice to Borrower of the name of the Participant and the amount of such participation. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in clauses (ii) and (iii) of the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by transfer pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender. Any stamp duty payable on or in respect of such a sale which does not occur during the continuation of a Default shall be paid by the Participant.
Participant
provided
provided
Section 10.2(c)
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
Section 10.8
Section 2.18(c)
(f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under , or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless Borrower shall expressly agree otherwise in writing. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Section 2.15
2.16
2.17
Section 2.17
Section 2.17(e)
(g) Each Lender that sells a participation shall, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, maintain a register on which it enters the name and address of each Participant and the principal amounts (and stated interest) of each Participant's interest in the
 
Loans or other obligations under this Agreement (the ""); that no Lender shall have any obligation to disclose all or any portion of the Participant Register to any Person (including the identity of any Participant or any information relating to a Participant's interest in any Commitments, Loans or its other obligations under this Agreement).
Participant Register
provided
(h) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender to a Federal Reserve Bank or, in the case of a Lender organized in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, a comparable Person, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(i) Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, no assignments or participations shall be made to any Borrower or any of their respective Affiliates or Subsidiaries, or to any Person who, upon becoming a Lender hereunder, would constitute any of the foregoing Persons described in this clause.
Section 10.5. . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Australian Administrative Agent, the Global Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of , , , , and and shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
2.18
2.20
10.3
Article IX
Section 10.6. . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Australian Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent and when the Australian Administrative Agent and the Global Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.1
 
Section 10.7. . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
Section 10.8. . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the Obligations of Borrower shall have been accelerated, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Borrower against any of and all the obligations of each Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff
Section 10.9.
GOVERNING LAW; JURISDICTION; CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS.
(a) THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS (OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINING A CONTRARY EXPRESS CHOICE OF LAW PROVISION) SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES.
(b) BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE AGENTS OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AGAINST BORROWER OR ITS PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
(c) BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT IT MAY LEGALLY AND EFFECTIVELY DO SO, ANY OBJECTION WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN THE FIRST SENTENCE OF
 
PARAGRAPH (b) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
(d) EACH PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY REGISTERED MAIL, POSTAGE PREPAID, OR BY PERSONAL SERVICE WITHIN OR WITHOUT THE STATE OF NEW SOUTH WALES. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY TO THIS AGREEMENT TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY LAW.
Section 10.10. . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
Section 10.11. . Each of the Agents and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory or self-regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) to any rating agency to the extent required by it, provided that, prior to any disclosure, such rating agency shall undertake in writing to preserve the confidentiality of any confidential information relating to the Borrowers received by it from any Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, (h) with the consent of Borrower or (i) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section by any Person or (ii) becomes available to any Agent or any Lender on a non-confidential basis from a source other than Borrower or any Person obligated to maintain the confidentiality of such Information. Prior to disclosing any Information under clause (c) above, the Agent or Lender required or asked to make such disclosure shall make a good faith effort to give Borrower prior notice of such proposed disclosure to permit Borrower to attempt to obtain a protective order or other appropriate injunctive relief. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from Borrower relating to Borrower or its business, other than any publicly available information and such information that is available to any Agent or any Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure by Borrower; that, in the case of information received from Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Confidentiality
Information
provided
 
Section 10.12. . It is the intention of the parties hereto to conform strictly to applicable interest, usury and criminal laws and, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the obligations of Borrower to a Lender or any Agent under this Agreement shall be subject to the limitation that payments of interest shall not be required to the extent that receipt thereof would be contrary to provisions of law applicable to such Lender or Agent limiting rates of interest which may be charged or collected by such Lender or Agent. Accordingly, if the transactions contemplated hereby would be illegal, unenforceable, usurious or criminal under laws applicable to a Lender or Agent (including the laws of any jurisdiction whose laws may be mandatorily applicable to such Lender or Agent notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document but subject to hereof) then, in that event, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, it is agreed as follows:
Interest Rate Limitation
Section 2.13
(i) the provisions of this Section shall govern and control;
(ii) the aggregate of all consideration which constitutes interest under applicable law that is contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received under this Agreement, or under any of the other aforesaid agreements or otherwise in connection with this Agreement by such Lender or Agent shall under no circumstances exceed the maximum amount of interest allowed by applicable law (such maximum lawful interest rate, if any, with respect to each Lender and the Agent herein called the ""), and any excess shall be cancelled automatically and if theretofore paid shall be credited to Borrower by such Lender or Agent (or, if such consideration shall have been paid in full, such excess refunded to Borrower);
Highest Lawful Rate
(iii) all sums paid, or agreed to be paid, to such Lender or Agent for the use, forbearance and detention of the indebtedness of Borrower to such Lender or Agent hereunder or under any Loan Document shall, to the extent permitted by laws applicable to such Lender or Agent, as the case may be, be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread throughout the full term of such indebtedness until payment in full so that the actual rate of interest is uniform throughout the full term thereof;
(iv) if at any time the interest provided pursuant to this Section or any other clause of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, together with any other fees or compensation payable pursuant to this Agreement or any other Loan Document and deemed interest under laws applicable to such Lender or Agent, exceeds that amount which would have accrued at the Highest Lawful Rate, the amount of interest and any such fees or compensation to accrue to such Lender or Agent pursuant to this Agreement shall be limited, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or any other Loan Document, to that amount which would have accrued at the Highest Lawful Rate, but any subsequent reductions, as applicable, shall not reduce the interest to accrue to such Lender or Agent pursuant to this Agreement below the Highest Lawful Rate until the total amount of interest accrued pursuant to this Agreement or such other Loan Document, as the case may be, and such fees or compensation deemed to be interest equals the amount of interest which would have accrued to such Lender or Agent if a varying rate per annum equal to the interest provided pursuant to any other relevant Section hereof (other than this Section), as applicable, had at all times been in effect, plus the amount of fees which would have been received but for the effect of this Section; and
 
(v) with the intent that the rate of interest herein shall at all times be lawful, and if the receipt of any funds owing hereunder or under any other agreement related hereto (including any of the other Loan Documents) by such Lender or Agent would cause such Lender to charge Borrower a criminal rate of interest, the Lenders and the Agents agree that they will not require the payment or receipt thereof or a portion thereof which would cause a criminal rate of interest to be charged by such Lender or Agent, as applicable, and if received such affected Lender or Agent will return such funds to Borrower so that the rate of interest paid by Borrower shall not exceed a criminal rate of interest from the date this Agreement was entered into.
Section 10.13. . Each Borrower has determined that it is in its best interest and in pursuance of its legitimate business purposes to induce the Lenders to extend credit to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement. Each Borrower acknowledges and represents that the availability of the Commitments to each of the Borrowers benefits each Borrower individually and that the Loans made will be for and inure to the benefit of each of the Borrowers individually and as a group. Accordingly, Apache Energy Limited shall be liable (as a principal and not as a surety, guarantor or other accommodation party) for each and every representation, warranty, covenant and obligation to be performed by the Borrowers under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, and Apache Energy Limited acknowledges that in extending the credit provided herein the Agents and the Lenders are relying upon the fact that the Obligations of each Borrower hereunder are the obligations of Apache Energy Limited. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, each Borrower, other than Apache Energy Limited, shall be severally, and not jointly, liable for all Obligations incurred by such Borrower under this Agreement. The invalidity, unenforceability or illegality of this Agreement or any other Loan Document as to one Borrower or the release by the Agents or the Lenders of a Borrower hereunder or thereunder shall not affect the Obligations of the other Borrowers under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, all of which shall otherwise remain valid and legally binding obligations of the other Borrowers.
Joint and Several Obligations
Section 10.14. . Each Lender that is subject to the USA Patriot Act and the Global Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Borrower that, pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies each Borrower, which information includes the name and address of each Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Global Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify each Borrower in accordance with the USA Patriot Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Section 10.15. . Each Agent, each Lender and their Affiliates (collectively, solely for purposes of this paragraph, the "Lenders"), may have economic interests that conflict with those of the Borrower and/or its Affiliates. Each Borrower agrees that nothing in the Loan Documents will be deemed to create an advisory, fiduciary or agency relationship or fiduciary duty between any Lender, on the one hand, and such Borrower or its Affiliates, on the other. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that (i) the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents (including the exercise of rights and remedies thereunder) are arm's-length
NO FIDUCIARY DUTY
 
commercial transactions between the Lenders, on the one hand, and the Borrower, on the other, and (ii) in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents, (x) no Lender has assumed an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of any Borrower or its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby (or the exercise of rights or remedies with respect thereto) (irrespective of whether any Lender has advised, is currently advising or will advise any Borrower or its Affiliates on other matters) or any other obligation to any Borrower except the obligations expressly set forth in the Loan Documents and (y) each Agent and Lender is acting solely as principal and not as the agent or fiduciary of any Borrower or its Affiliates. Each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that it has consulted its own legal and financial advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate and that it is responsible for making its own independent judgment with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents.
Section 10.16. Each Lender and Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies each Borrower that: (a) each Agent and Lender is subject to Australian laws and regulations pertaining to anti-money laundering and terrorist financing ("") that require it to take action prescribed thereby in respect of persons which may be subject to legal sanctions under Relevant Laws, including (i) the interception and investigation of any payment messages and other information sent to or by the Parent or Borrower through the systems of the Lenders, (ii) the making of enquiries to determine whether a person is a sanctioned person, (iii) the giving of information about any transaction or activity to a person authorized under a Relevant Law to receive that information, and (iv) the delaying, blocking or refusing to make any payment if it would violate a Relevant Law.
Anti-money Laundering.
Relevant Laws
Section 10.17. THIS WRITTEN AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS REPRESENT THE FINAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND MAY NOT BE CONTRADICTED BY EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS, OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES. THERE ARE NO UNWRITTEN ORAL AGREEMENTS AMONG THE PARTIES.
NO ORAL AGREEMENTS.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DEUTSCHE BANK AG, SYDNEY BRANCH
as Lender                     
(ABN 13 064 165 162),
 
 
 
HSBC BANK AUSTRALIA LIMITED
as Lender        
(ABN 48 006 434 162),
 
 
 
 


