FILE:APA/APA-8K-20121101104417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 furnished herewith, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of Section 18, and shall not be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
On November 1, 2012, Apache Corporation issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2012. The full text of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Houston, Nov. 1, 2012  Apache Corporation (NYSE, Nasdaq: APA) said today that higher rig counts and new infrastructure contributed to record production from Permian and Anadarko Basin operations.
For the three-month period ending Sept. 30, 2012, Apache reported production of 771,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day, up approximately 18,300 boepd, or 2.4 percent, from the same period in the prior year. Deferred production impacted third-quarter 2012 volumes by an estimated 25,000 boepd.
Apache's third-quarter 2012 earnings totaled $161 million, or 41 cents per diluted common share, reflecting the impact of a $539 million non-cash, after-tax write-down in the carrying value of its properties in Canada resulting from lower natural gas prices. For the same period last year, Apache reported earnings of $983 million, or $2.50 per diluted share.
Apache's adjusted earnings,* which exclude the write-down and certain other items that impact the comparability of operating results, totaled $861 million, or $2.16 per diluted common share, in the third quarter as the impact of higher production was offset in part by lower prices for natural gas and natural gas liquids. In the prior-year period, Apache reported adjusted earnings of $1.16 billion, or $2.95 per share. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities* totaled $2.42 billion in the third quarter, down from $2.69 billion in the prior-year period.
 
APACHE'S THIRD QUARTER RESULTS; RECORD PRODUCTION IN PERMIAN/CENTRAL REGIONS  ADD 1
 
"We are continuing to add drilling rigs and accelerate activity in the Permian and Anadarko basins. Today, we are running 56 rigs in these regions with plans to expand throughout next year. All are drilling oil and liquids-rich targets and more than half are drilling horizontal wells. Production in these two regions increased 30 percent from a year ago, accounting for nearly a quarter of Apache's overall production compared with less than a fifth in third-quarter 2011. We expect this growth trajectory to continue well into the future," said G. Steven Farris, chairman and chief executive officer.
Apache's production from the Permian Basin and Central regions totaled 183,961 boepd for third quarter 2012, which includes a full three-month's contribution from Cordillera assets acquired earlier in the year. For the same period in 2011, the two regions produced 141,020 boepd.
"Another contributor to our growth was securing additional take-away capacity, which we've done with new infrastructure projects," Farris said. "Our joint-venture gas plant at the Deadwood Field in West Texas became fully operational during the third quarter, processing more than 50 million cubic feet per day. We also installed a nine-mile pipeline in our Bivins Ranch area in the Texas Panhandle. The line is currently transporting 3.3 MMcf of associated gas per day and will enable us to continue to develop the area well beyond its present rate of 5,000 barrels of oil per day. Both projects can be expanded with production growth. We continue to pursue marketing arrangements aggressively to move our production and enhance margins.
"We're committed to growth through the drill bit across our portfolio, and Apache has nearly 100 rigs operating worldwide right now. With drilling activity and production on the rise, we look forward to concluding 2012 with our strongest quarter of the year," he said.
The company's balanced portfolio of North American and international assets, as well as oil and gas producing properties, helped to stabilize the effects of volatile prices in the commodity markets.
APACHE'S THIRD QUARTER RESULTS; RECORD PRODUCTION IN PERMIAN/CENTRAL REGIONS  ADD 2
 
Worldwide, Apache received an average of $102.62 per barrel of oil, a slight increase from $101.71 per barrel in the prior-year period. Apache benefitted from higher price realizations on Dated Brent crude produced in the company's Australia, North Sea and Egypt regions, and on sweet crude from the Gulf of Mexico regions. Apache received premium prices to the WTI index on approximately 70 percent of crude oil production.
Apache's international regions saw natural gas price realizations increase on average 13 percent from the prior-year period to $4.21 per thousand cubic feet (Mcf). North American natural gas price realizations fell 27 percent from the same period a year ago to $3.51 per Mcf. International gas production represented 36 percent of Apache's total gas volumes.
*Adjusted earnings and cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities are non-GAAP measures. Please see reconciliations below. For supplemental and non-GAAP information, please go to .
http://www.apachecorp.com/financialinfo
Apache to webcast conference call
Apache Corporation will discuss its third-quarter 2012 results at 1 p.m. Central time on Thursday, Nov. 1. The conference call will be webcast from Apache's website . The webcast replay will be archived on Apache's website. The conference call will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 4 p.m. on Nov. 1. To access the telephone playback, dial 855-859-2056 or 404-537-3406 for international calls. The conference access code is 42313953.
www.apachecorp.com
About Apache
Apache Corporation is an oil and gas exploration and production company with operations in the United States, Canada, Egypt, the United Kingdom North Sea, Australia and Argentina. Apache posts announcements, operational updates, investor information and copies of all press releases on its website .
www.apachecorp.com
APACHE'S THIRD QUARTER RESULTS; RECORD PRODUCTION IN PERMIAN/CENTRAL REGIONS  ADD 3
 
Forward-looking statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements can be identified by words such as "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "seeks," "believes," "estimates," "expects" and similar references to future periods. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about future plans, expectations, and objectives for Apache's operations including statements about our infrastructure projects, drilling plans and future production growth. While forward-looking statements are based on assumptions and analyses made by us that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, whether actual results and developments will meet our expectations and predictions depend on a number of risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results, performance, and financial condition to differ materially from our expectations. See "Risk Factors" in our 2011 Form 10-K and other public filings filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a discussion of risk factors that affect our business. Any forward-looking statement made by us in this news release speaks only as of the date on which it is made. Factors or events that could cause our actual results to differ may emerge from time to time, and it is not possible for us to predict all of them. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future development, or otherwise, except as may be required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of income attributable to common stock to adjusted earnings:
The press release discusses Apache's adjusted earnings. Adjusted earnings exclude certain items that management believes affect the comparability of operating results and are meaningful for the following reasons:
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities:
The press release discusses Apache's cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities. It is presented because management believes the information is useful for investors because it is used internally and widely accepted by those following the oil and gas industry as a financial indicator of a company's ability to generate cash to internally fund exploration and development activities, fund dividend programs, and service debt. It is also used by research analysts to value and compare oil and gas exploration and production companies, and is frequently included in published research when providing investment recommendations. Cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities, therefore, is an additional measure of liquidity, but is not a measure of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, or financing activities.
The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to cash from operations before changes in operating assets and liabilities.
 


