FILE:APA/APA-8K-20120113172054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 11, 2012, the Stock Plan Committee of the board of directors of Apache Corporation ("Apache") granted incentive awards, effective as of January 11, 2012, to substantially all management and professional employees of Apache and its subsidiaries, including certain of the executive officers named in Apache's 2011 Proxy Statement. These grants were made pursuant to Apache's existing 2011 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Omnibus Plan"), which was approved by Apache's stockholders in May 2011. Each management and professional employee and officer received a 2012 Performance Program ("2012 Performance") award, which was granted in performance-based, at-risk, restricted stock units intended to link the grantee's potential compensation to Apache's performance over a specified future period. The 2012 Performance awards are designed to attract, retain and incentivize executives and other employees while aligning their interests with the interests of Apache's stockholders. The form of award agreement for the 2012 Performance awards is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
The 2012 Performance award is part of an annual performance-based incentive compensation program, initiated in 2010, whereby each year the Stock Plan Committee will authorize a conditional grant of restricted stock units to employees, including named executive officers, based on a target percentage of the grantee's annual base salary determined immediately prior to the beginning of a three-year performance period. The performance period for the 2012 Performance award begins on January 1, 2012 and ends on December 31, 2014. The number of restricted stock units received at the end of the performance period will depend on a peer company comparison of total shareholder return. The peer companies for the 2012 Performance Program are: Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, BP plc, Canadian Natural Resources Ltd., Chesapeake Energy Corporation, Chevron Corporation, ConocoPhillips Company, Devon Energy Corporation, EnCana Corporation, Eni SpA, EOG Resources, Inc., Exxon Mobil Corporation, Hess Corporation, Marathon Oil Corporation, Murphy Oil Corporation, Noble Energy Inc., Occidental Petroleum Corporation, Royal Dutch Shell plc, and Talisman Energy Inc. Should consolidation occur among any peer group companies during the performance period, the Stock Plan Committee will determine the appropriate adjustments to measure Apache's total shareholder return for the performance period. Total shareholder return for Apache and each of the peer companies is determined by dividing (i) the sum of the cumulative amount of a company's dividends for the performance period and the average per share closing price of the company's stock for the 60 trading days at the end of the performance period minus the average per share closing price of the company's stock for the 60 trading days preceding the beginning of the performance period; by (ii) the average per share closing price of the company's stock for the 60 trading days preceding the beginning of the performance period.
Depending on Apache's total shareholder return compared to the total shareholder return of the peer companies, the grantee's conditional grant of restricted stock units will be adjusted by a factor ranging from 0 to 2.5 times the amount of the conditional grant. For the 2012 Performance award, 50% of the adjusted grant, if any, will vest at the close of the performance period (December 31, 2014), 25% will vest on December 31, 2015, and 25% will vest on December 31, 2016. Upon vesting, Apache will issue shares of Apache's common stock as settlement for the restricted stock units, net of the shares withheld for tax purposes.
Payout of the 2012 Performance award depends on the grantee remaining employed throughout the applicable performance period and the vesting period. Except as described below, a cessation of employment prior to the end of the performance period will result in the forfeiture of the entire amount of the conditional grant. If the grantee voluntarily leaves the employment of Apache, or is terminated for any reason or no reason during the vesting period, the unvested grants shall thereafter be forfeited. However, if the grantee dies or becomes totally and permanently disabled during the performance period, the conditional grant shall vest immediately at one times the amount of the conditional grant. If the grantee dies or is totally and permanently disabled during the vesting period, then the entire amount of the award will vest immediately. In the event of a grantee's involuntary termination or voluntary termination with cause (as defined in the Omnibus Plan, but generally including voluntary termination due to, among other things, a diminution in the grantee's compensation or job responsibilities and authority) upon a change of control (as defined in the Omnibus Plan) during the performance period, the 2012 Performance awards shall immediately vest in the number of restricted stock units determined by multiplying the conditional grant by the applicable multiple based upon Apache's actual total shareholder return compared to the total shareholder return of its peers for the performance period, measured as of the grantee's termination date. If the change of control occurs during the vesting period, the entire amount of the award vests immediately upon a grantee's involuntary termination or voluntary termination with cause.
In addition to those awards made to management and professional employees of Apache, 2012 Performance awards were made to the named executive officers who were employed by Apache on the grant date, as follows: G. Steven Farris was granted a 2012 Performance award of 45,481 restricted stock units, Roger B. Plank and Rodney J. Eichler each were granted a 2012 Performance award of 17,542 restricted stock units, P. Anthony Lannie was granted a 2012 Performance award of 7,239 restricted stock units and, Thomas P. Chambers was granted a 2012 Performance award of 6,455 restricted stock units.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This 2012 Performance Program Agreement (the "Agreement") relating to a conditional grant of Restricted Stock Units (as defined in the rules of the Apache Corporation 2011 Omnibus Equity Compensation Plan (the "Plan") (the "Conditional Grant"), dated as of the Grant Date set forth in the Notice of Award under the 2012 Performance Program attached as Schedule A hereto (the "Award Notice"), is made between Apache Corporation (together with its Affiliates, the "Company") and each Recipient. The Award Notice is included in and made part of this Agreement.
In this Agreement and each Award Notice, unless the context otherwise requires, words and expressions shall have the meanings given to them in the Plan except as herein defined.
Definitions
"" means the separate notice given to each Recipient specifying the Target Amount for that individual.
Award Notice
"" means, with regard to any Recipient, such Recipient's annual base compensation as an employee of the Company determined immediately prior to the beginning of the Performance Period, without regard to any bonus, pension, profit sharing, stock option, life insurance or salary continuation plan which the Recipient either receives or is otherwise entitled to have paid on his or her behalf.
Base Salary
"" means the conditional entitlement, evidenced by this Agreement to receive all or a portion of a Target Amount and Final Amount, subject to and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement.
Conditional Grant
"" means the closing price of the Stock as reported on The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. Composite Transactions Reporting System ("Composite Tape") for a particular date or, if the Stock is not so listed at any time, as reported on NASDAQ or on such other exchange or electronic trading system as, on the date in question, reports the largest number of traded shares of stock. If there are no Stock transactions on such date, the Fair Market Value shall be determined as of the immediately preceding date on which there were Stock transactions.
Fair Market Value
"" means with regard to any Recipient, such number of shares of Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") as specified in each Recipient's Award Notice, times the applicable multiple factor determined under the Performance Measure at the end of the Performance Period.
Final Amount
"" means the termination of employment of the Recipient by the Company or its successor for any reason on or after a Change of Control; provided, that the termination does not result from an act of the Recipient that (i) constitutes common-law fraud, a felony, or a gross malfeasance of duty, or (ii) is materially detrimental to the best interests of the Company or its successor.
Involuntary Termination
"" means the vested portion of the Final Amount expressed as shares of Stock underlying the RSUs.
Payout Amount
 
"" means the group of companies selected by the Committee for purposes of this Agreement as set forth in the Award Notice. Should consolidation among any Peer Group companies in the marketplace occur during the Performance Period, the Committee will determine the appropriate adjustments to accommodate the reduced number of Peer Group companies for the Performance Period. Should a Change of Control of the Company occur during the Performance Period, the Committee will determine the appropriate adjustments to measure Apache Corporation's TSR for the Performance Period. The Peer Group companies for any particular Performance Period shall be determined at the commencement of such Performance Period.
Peer Group
"" means Apache Corporation's TSR over the Performance Period compared to the TSR of the Company's Peer Group over the Performance Period. At the end of the Performance Period, the Peer Group companies and the Company will be ranked together based on their TSR for the Performance Period from the highest TSR being number 1 to the lowest TSR being the number of Peer Group companies, including the Company, remaining in the group at the end of the Performance Period. Based on the Company's relative TSR rank amongst the Peer Group companies for the Performance Period, a Recipient who remains employed as of the last day of the Performance Period will be issued RSUs at the close of the Performance Period as determined by the Company's percentile rank as set forth in the Award Notice (the Final Amount).
Performance Measure
"" means the three-year period as specified in the Award Notice.
Performance Period
"" means an Eligible Person designated by the Committee at the Grant Date at the beginning of the Performance Period to receive one or more Conditional Grants under the Plan. For purposes of this Agreement, the group of Eligible Persons shall include all full-time and designated part-time employees of the Company who are employed as employees of the Company (as designated by the Company for payroll purposes) on the date immediately prior to the beginning of the Performance Period, but excluding Egyptian nationals employed outside of the United States, employees categorized by the Company (for payroll purposes) as non-exempt support and field staff, leased employees, interns, or, except for employees who are members of the Hierarchical Union Neuqun and the Union of Hierarchical Personnel of Private Oil and Gas for Neuqun, Rio Negro and La Pampa, any employee of the Company who is covered under a collective bargaining agreement, unless such collective bargaining agreement specifically provides for coverage under the Plan.
Recipient
"" means, with regard to any Recipient, such number of RSUs as specified in each Recipient's Award Notice. Such Target Amount shall be based upon a target percentage of annual Base Salary determined immediately prior to the beginning of the Performance Period derived from job level.
Target Amount
"" or "" is determined by dividing (i) the sum of the cumulative amount of a company's dividends for the Performance Period (assuming same-day reinvestment into the company's common stock on the ex-dividend date) and the share price of the company at the end of the Performance Period minus the share price at the beginning of the Performance Period, by (ii) the share price at the beginning of the Performance Period.
Total Shareholder Return
TSR
 
"" occurs upon a Recipient's separation from service of his own volition and one or more of the following conditions occurs without the Recipient's consent on or after a Change of Control:
Voluntary Termination with Cause
 
 
 
 
 
The Recipient must notify the Company of the existence of one or more adverse conditions specified in clauses (a) through (e) above within 90 days of the initial existence of the adverse condition. The notice must be provided in writing to Apache Corporation's Vice President, Human Resources or his/her delegate. The notice may be provided by personal delivery or it may be sent by email, inter-office mail, regular mail (whether or not certified), fax, or any similar method. Apache Corporation's Vice President, Human Resources or his/her delegate shall acknowledge receipt of the notice within 5 business days; the acknowledgement shall be sent to the Recipient by certified mail. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, if the Company remedies the adverse condition within 30 days of being notified of the adverse condition, no Voluntary Termination with Cause shall occur.
Terms
1. . Subject to the provisions of this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan and Award Notice, the Company shall conditionally grant to the Recipient, pursuant to the Plan, a right to receive the Target Amount of RSUs set forth in the Recipient's Award Notice. Such Target Amount shall be adjusted to a Final Amount at the end of the Performance Period based upon the results of the Performance Measure, as determined by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Target Amount shall be adjusted to a Final Amount of RSUs at the conclusion of the Performance Period solely for each Recipient who remains employed as of the last day of the Performance Period. The award of the Final Amount shall give the Recipient the right, upon vesting, to an equal number of shares of $0.625 par value common stock of the Company ("Stock").
Conditional Grant of RSUs
 
2. . Subject to the provisions of Section 3, the Payout Amounts shall be payable in increments strictly in accordance with the following schedule:
Vesting and Payment of Stock
(a) The entitlement to receive the number of shares of Stock pursuant to the RSUs comprising the Final Amount shall vest fifty percent (50%) on the final date of the Performance Period provided that the Recipient remains employed as an Eligible Person on such date. Such Stock, subject to applicable withholding, shall be transferred by the Company to the Recipient within thirty (30) days of the end of the Performance Period (subject to the Committee's confirmation) and not later than March 15 of the year following the year in which the RSUs vest.
(b) The entitlement to receive the remaining number of shares of Stock pursuant to the RSUs comprising the Final Amount shall vest and become transferable twenty-five percent (25%) twelve months from the close of the Performance Period and an additional twenty-five percent (25%) twenty-four months from the close of the Performance Period, provided that the Recipient remains employed as an Eligible Person on each such applicable vesting date. Such Stock, subject to applicable withholding, shall be transferred by the Company to the Recipient within thirty (30) days of the respective vesting date and not later than March 15 of the year following the year in which the RSUs vest.
3. . Except as set forth below, a cessation of employment with the Company prior to the end of the Performance Period will result in the Target Amount being forfeited for all purposes.
Termination of Employment, Death, or Disability prior to the end of the Performance Period
(a) If the Recipient dies while employed by the Company, or on the date the Recipient becomes Disabled (defined for purposes of this Agreement as the Recipient's total and permanent disability as determined by the Company), during the Performance Period, the Recipient shall immediately receive an amount equal to the Target Amount of RSUs and shall become 100% vested in such Target Amount. Payment shall occur as soon as administratively convenient following the date the Recipient dies or becomes Disabled, but in no event shall the payment occur later than March 15 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Recipient died or became Disabled. If the Recipient dies before receiving payment, the payment shall be made to the Recipient's estate.
4. . Except as set forth below, each Conditional Grant shall be subject to the condition that the Recipient has remained an Eligible Person from the Target award of the Conditional Grant of RSUs until the applicable vesting date as follows:
Termination of Employment, Death or Disability on or after the end of the Performance Period
(a) If the Recipient voluntarily leaves the employment of the Company (including retirement), or if the employment of the Recipient is terminated by the Company for any reason or no reason, any Final Amounts not previously vested shall thereafter be void and forfeited for all purposes.
(b) A Recipient shall become 100% fully vested in all Final Amounts on the date the Recipient dies while employed by the Company, or on the date the Recipient becomes Disabled (defined for purposes of this Agreement as the Recipient's total and permanent disability as determined by the Company) while employed by the Company. Payment shall occur as soon as
 
administratively convenient following the date the Recipient dies or becomes Disabled, but in no event shall the payment occur later than March 15 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Recipient died or became Disabled. If the Recipient dies before receiving payment, the payment shall be made to the Recipient's estate.
 
(a) In the event of the Recipient's Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause which occurs (i) on or after a Change of Control of the Company and (ii) on or prior to the end of the Performance Period, the Recipient shall become 100% fully vested upon the occurrence of his Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause on or after the Change of Control in the number of RSUs determined by applying the multiple under the Performance Measure determined through the date of the Recipient's Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause (based upon actual TSR results as of such date) to the Target Amount. Subject to Section 12.1(d) of the Plan, payment shall occur within thirty (30) days of the later of (1) the date of the Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause of the Recipient following the Change of Control or (2) the end of the Performance Period.
(b) In the event of a Recipient's Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause occurring on or after a Change of Control of the Company which occurs after the end of the Performance Period, the Recipient shall become 100% fully vested in the Final Amount of RSUs as of the date of his Involuntary Termination or Voluntary Termination with Cause. Subject to Section 12.1(d) of the Plan, payment shall occur within thirty (30) days of the Change of Control.
6. . Upon receipt of any entitlement to Stock under this Agreement, the Recipient shall make appropriate arrangements with the Company to provide for the amount of minimum tax withholding required by law, including without limitation Sections 3102 and 3402 or any successor section(s) of the Internal Revenue Code and applicable state and local income and other tax laws. Each payment of the Payout Amount shall be made in shares of Stock, determined by the Committee, such that the withheld number of shares shall be sufficient to cover the withholding amount required by this Section (including any amount to cover benefit tax charges arising thereon). The payment of a Payout Amount shall be based on the Fair Market Value of the shares of Stock on the applicable date of vesting to which such tax withholding relates. Where appropriate, shares shall be withheld by the Company to satisfy applicable tax withholding requirements rather than paid directly to the Recipient.
Payment and Tax Withholding
7. . Neither the Recipient nor any other person shall become the beneficial owner of the Stock underlying the Conditional Grant, nor have any rights of a shareholder (including, without limitation, dividend and voting rights) with respect to any such Stock, unless and until and after such Stock has been actually issued to the recipient and transferred on the books and records of the Company or its agent in accordance with the terms of the Plan and this Agreement.
No Ownership Rights Prior to Issuance of Stock
8. . Stock issued pursuant to a Conditional Grant shall not be transferable otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, subject to the conditions and exceptions set forth in Section 14.2 of the Plan.
Non-Transferability of Stock
 
9. . Neither the RSUs or Stock issued pursuant to a Conditional Grant nor any terms contained in this Agreement shall confer upon the Recipient any express or implied right to be retained in the employment or service of the Company for any period, nor restrict in any way the right of the Company, which right is hereby expressly reserved, to terminate the Recipient's employment or service at any time for any reason or no reason. The Recipient acknowledges and agrees that any right to receive RSUs or Stock pursuant to a Conditional Grant is earned only by continuing as an employee of the Company at the will of the Company, or satisfaction of any other applicable terms and conditions contained in the Plan and this Agreement, and not through the act of being hired, being granted the Conditional Grant, or acquiring RSUs or Stock pursuant to the Conditional Grant hereunder.
No Right to Continued Employment
10. . In consideration for this Conditional Grant, the Recipient agrees to comply with the terms of the Plan and this Agreement. This Agreement is subject to all the terms, provisions and conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference, and to such regulations as may from time to time be adopted by the Committee. Unless defined herein, capitalized terms are used herein as defined in the Plan. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement, the provisions of the Plan shall control, and this Agreement shall be deemed to be modified accordingly. The Plan and the prospectus describing the Plan can be found on the Company's HR intranet and the Plan document can be found on Fidelity's website (netbenefits.fidelity.com). A paper copy of the Plan and the prospectus shall be provided to the recipient upon the Recipient's written request to the Company at 2000 Post Oak Blvd., Suite 100, Houston, Texas 77056-4400, Attention: Corporate Secretary.
The Plan
 
(a) The Conditional Grant and any obligation of the Company to deliver RSUs or Stock hereunder shall be subject in all respects to (i) all applicable laws, rules and regulations and (ii) any registration, qualification, approvals or other requirements imposed by any government or regulatory agency or body which the Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or applicable. Moreover, the Company shall not deliver any certificates for Stock to the Recipient or any other person pursuant to this Agreement if doing so would be contrary to applicable law. If at any time the Company determines, in its discretion, that the listing, registration or qualification of Stock upon any national securities exchange or under any applicable law, or the consent or approval of any governmental regulatory body, is necessary or desirable, the Company shall not be required to deliver any certificates for Stock to the Recipient or any other person pursuant to this Agreement unless and until such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval has been effected or obtained, or otherwise provided for, free of any conditions not acceptable to the Company.
(b) It is intended that any Stock received in respect of the Conditional Grant shall have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act"). If the Recipient is an "affiliate" of the Company, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act ("Rule 144"), the Recipient may not sell the Stock received except in compliance with Rule 144. Certificates representing Stock issued to an "affiliate" of the Company may bear a legend setting forth such restrictions on the disposition or transfer of the Stock as the Company deems appropriate to comply with Federal and state securities laws.
 
(c) If, at any time, the Stock is not registered under the Securities Act, and/or there is no current prospectus in effect under the Securities Act with respect to the Stock, the Recipient shall execute, prior to the delivery of any Stock to the Recipient by the Company pursuant to this Agreement, an agreement (in such form as the Company may specify) in which the Recipient represents and warrants that the Recipient is purchasing or acquiring the Stock acquired under this Agreement for the Recipient's own account, for investment only and not with a view to the resale or distribution thereof, and represents and agrees that any subsequent offer for sale or distribution of any kind of such Stock shall be made only pursuant to either (i) a registration statement on an appropriate form under the Securities Act, which registration statement has become effective and is current with regard to the Stock being offered or sold, or (ii) a specific exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, but in claiming such exemption the Recipient shall, prior to any offer for sale of such Stock, obtain a prior favorable written opinion, in form and substance satisfactory to the Company, from counsel for or approved by the Company, as to the applicability of such exemption thereto.
12. . All notices by the Recipient or the Recipient's assignees shall be addressed to the Administrative Agent, Fidelity, through the Recipient's account at netbenefits.fidelity.com, or such other address as the Company may from time to time specify. All notices to the Recipient shall be addressed to the Recipient at the Recipient's address in the Company's records.
Notices
13. . The Recipient acknowledges that any income derived from the Conditional Grant shall not affect the Recipient's participation in, or benefits under, any other benefit plan or other contract or arrangement maintained by the Company or any Affiliate.
Other Plans
14. . The Plan is a discretionary plan. The Recipient hereby acknowledges that neither the plan nor this Agreement forms part of his terms of employment and nothing in the Plan may be construed as imposing on the Company or any Affiliate a contractual obligation to offer participation in the Plan to any employee of the Company or any Affiliate. The Company or any Affiliate is under no obligation to grant further Stock to any Recipient under the Plan. The Recipient hereby acknowledges that if he ceases to be an employee of the Company or any Affiliate for any reason or no reason, he shall not be entitled by way of compensation for loss of office or otherwise howsoever to any sum.
Terms of Employment
15. . By accepting this Agreement (whether by electronic means or otherwise), the Recipient hereby consents to the holding and processing of personal data provided by him to the Company for all purposes necessary for the operation of the Plan. These include, but are not limited to:
Data Protection
(a) administering and maintaining Recipient records;
(b) providing information to any registrars, brokers or third party administrators of the Plan; and
(c) providing information to future purchasers of the Company or the business in which the Recipient works.
 


