FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20071003144817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On September 30, 2007, the distribution (the "Distribution") by NCR Corporation ("NCR") of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata") to the stockholders of NCR was completed in a spin-off (the "Spin-Off") intended to qualify for tax-free treatment. Upon the Distribution, NCR stockholders of record as of September 14, 2007 ("Record Date") received one share of Teradata common stock for every share of NCR common stock held as of the Record Date. Such NCR stockholders collectively received 100% of the common stock of Teradata, which is now an independent public company trading under the symbol "TDC" on the New York Stock Exchange. Further details regarding the Spin-Off may be found in Teradata's Information Statement dated August 27, 2007 (the "Information Statement") which was filed on August 31, 2007 as Exhibit 99.2 to NCR's current report on Form 8-K.
In connection with the Spin-Off, the following agreements between Teradata and NCR became effective: Interim Services and Systems Replication Agreement; Exclusive Patent Agreement; Patent License Agreement; Technology Agreement; Master Agreement for Enterprise Data Warehousing Sales and Support; Network Support Agreement; Service Provider Agreement and Master Reseller Agreement. The terms of these agreements were described in the Information Statement and the forms were attached as exhibits to Teradata's Amendment No. 2 to Form 10 filed August 21, 2007.
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the Spin-Off is attached hereby as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information included in Item 1.01 of this current report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference into this Item 2.01.
 
On October 1, 2007, Teradata entered into a five year, $300 million unsecured credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") with the lenders party thereto from time to time and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent. The Credit Agreement provides for a revolving credit commitment of up to $300 million. Borrowing under the Credit Agreement is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions precedent.
The terms of the Credit Agreement include various affirmative and negative covenants, including financial covenants related to the maintenance of a minimum interest coverage ratio (EBITDA to cash interest expense) and a maximum leverage ratio (total indebtedness to EBITDA). The Credit Agreement also includes customary events of default with corresponding grace periods, including, without limitation, payment defaults, cross-defaults to other agreements evidencing indebtedness for borrowed money and bankruptcy-related defaults.
A copy of the Credit Agreement is filed as an exhibit to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The description above is a summary of the Credit Agreement and is qualified in its entirety by the complete text of the Credit Agreement.
 
Teradata's board of directors has adopted a Corporate Governance Guidelines and a Code of Conduct that apply to all directors, officers and employees of Teradata. A copy of Teradata's Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Conduct are available on the corporate governance page of Teradata's website: http://www.teradata.com.
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Execution Copy
 
Published Cusip Number:
                                        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This is entered into as of October 1, 2007 (this ""), among , as Borrower, each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and, individually, a ""), , as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, , as Syndication Agent, and , and , as Co-Documentation Agents.
REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
TERADATA CORPORATION
Lenders
Lender
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.
JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
CITIBANK, N.A.
FIFTH/THIRD BANK
THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD.
The Borrower has requested the Lenders to establish the credit facility provided for herein on the Closing Date for the general corporate purposes of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries. The Lenders are willing to establish such credit facility upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
Accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.01 . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms
"" means an agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, between the Borrower and an Additional Credit Lender pursuant to which such Additional Credit Lender assumes an Additional Credit Commitment under .
Additional Credit Assumption Agreement
Section 2.21
"" means the Commitment of any Lender (including any increase to a Lender's then existing Commitment) established pursuant to .
Additional Credit Commitment
Section 2.21
"" means a Lender with an Additional Credit Commitment or a Person that will become such a Lender pursuant to .
Additional Credit Lender
Section 2.21
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
"" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account set forth in , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 9.01
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preamble hereto.
Agreement
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Agreement Currency
Section 9.14(b)
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of Commitments in effect at such time.
Aggregate Commitments
"" means the aggregate amount of the Lenders' Revolving Credit Exposures.
Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means each of British Pounds Sterling, Euros, Japanese Yen and each other currency approved in accordance with .
Alternative Currency
Section 1.05
"" means a Borrowing consisting of Alternative Currency Loans.
Alternative Currency Borrowing
"" means, at any time, the aggregate Dollar Equivalent of the principal amount of all outstanding Alternative Currency Loans at such time. The Alternative Currency Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Alternative Currency Exposure at such time.
Alternative Currency Exposure
"" means the Revolving Loans that are denominated in Alternative Currencies. Each Alternative Currency Loan shall be a Eurocurrency Rate Loan.
Alternative Currency Loans
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Applicable Creditor
Section 9.14(b)
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means the following percentages per annum, based upon the Leverage Ratio as set forth in the most recent Compliance Certificate received by the Administrative Agent pursuant to :
Applicable Rate
Section 5.01(c)
Applicable Rate
 
 
For the period from the Closing Date until the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered for the fiscal quarter ending September 30, 2007 pursuant to , the Applicable Rate shall equal Pricing Level 4. Thereafter, any increase or decrease in the Applicable Rate resulting from a change in the Leverage Ratio shall become effective as of the first Business Day immediately following the date a Compliance Certificate is delivered pursuant to ; , , that if a Compliance Certificate is not delivered when due in accordance with such Section, then Pricing Level 1 shall apply as of the first Business Day after the date on which such Compliance Certificate was required to have been delivered.
Section 5.01(c)
Section 5.01(c)
provided
however
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this definition, the determination of the Applicable Rate for any period shall be subject to the provisions of .
Section 2.13
"" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
"" means Banc of America Securities and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. in their capacity as joint lead arrangers and joint book managers.
Arrangers
"" means an Assignment and Assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit C
"" means, on any date, in respect of any lease of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, as lessee, entered into as part of a sale and leaseback transaction subject to , (i) if such lease is a Capital Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount thereof that would appear on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP, and (ii) if such lease is not a Capital Lease Obligation, the capitalized amount of the remaining lease payments under such lease that would appear on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower prepared as of such date in accordance with GAAP if such lease were accounted for as a Capital Lease Obligation.
Attributable Indebtedness
Section 6.03
"" means the audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries most recently delivered in accordance with , and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including the notes thereto.
Audited Financial Statements
Section 5.01(a)
"" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.09
Section 7.02
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
"" means Banc of America Securities LL/C and its successors.
Banc of America Securities
"" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate plus 1/2 of 1% and (b) the Prime Rate.
Base Rate
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Base Rate. Base Rate Loans shall be denominated in dollars only.
Base Rate Loan
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means Teradata Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Borrower
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Borrower Materials
Section 5.02
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type and currency, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect, (b) a Competitive Advance or group of Competitive Advances of the same Type and currency made on the same date and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (c) Swing Line Loans made on the same date.
Borrowing
"" means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with .
Borrowing Request
Section 2.03
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office with respect to Obligations denominated in Dollars is located and:
Business Day
(a) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank Eurocurrency market;
(b) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan that is an Alternative Currency Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day;
 
(c) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan that is an Alternative Currency Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and
(d) if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
"" means each of the following: (a) each date of a Borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (b) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (c) the last Business Day of each calendar week and (d) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require.
Calculation Date
"" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders). Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings.
Cash Collateralize
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof) other than an employee benefit plan or related trust of the Borrower or of the Borrower and any Subsidiaries, of shares representing more than 25% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Borrower; or (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Borrower by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Borrower nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated.
Change in Control
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c)
Change in Law
 
compliance by any Lender or the L/C Issuer (or, for purposes of , by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.15(b)
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans, Competitive Advances or Swing Line Loans.
Class
"" means the first date on which all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with (or, in the case of , waived by the Person entitled to receive the applicable payment).
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 4.01
Section 4.01(b)
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to , (b) increased from time to time pursuant to , and (c) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to . The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on , in the Additional Credit Assumption Agreement pursuant to which such Lender shall have obtained an Additional Credit Commitment, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $300,000,000.
Commitment
Section 2.09
Section 2.21
Section 9.04
Schedule 2.01
"" means a Loan made pursuant to .
Competitive Advance
Section 2.04
"" means an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Advance in accordance with .
Competitive Bid
Section 2.04
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Bid, the Margin or the Fixed Rate, as applicable, offered by the Lender making such Competitive Bid.
Competitive Bid Rate
"" means a request by the Borrower for Competitive Bids in accordance with .
Competitive Bid Request
Section 2.04
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit F
"" means, for any period, the difference for such period between (a) the sum for the Borrower and the Subsidiaries of (i) interest expense and (ii) the portion of any payments or accruals with respect to Capital Lease Obligations allocable to interest expense and (iii) capitalized interest expense and (b) to the extent included in interest expense, the sum for the Borrower and the Subsidiaries of (i) pay-in-kind interest expense and (ii) the amortization of debt discounts, all as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Cash Interest Expense
 
"" means, for any period, the net income (loss) of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for such period plus, to the extent deducted in computing such consolidated net income and without duplication, the sum of (a) income tax expense, (b) Consolidated Cash Interest Expense, (c) depreciation and amortization expense, and (d) extraordinary losses during such period and nonrecurring noncash charges during such period (provided that any cash expenditure in respect of any such noncash charge will be deducted in computing Consolidated EBITDA for a period in which such expenditure is made), minus, to the extent added in computing such consolidated net income and without duplication, the sum of (i) income tax benefit and (ii) extraordinary or nonrecurring gains during such period, all as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated EBITDA
"" means, for any period, for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis, the net income of the Borrower and such Subsidiaries for that period.
Consolidated Net Income
"" means, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter of the Borrower, all tangible assets on the consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Tangible Assets
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) and L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
"" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
"" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default.
Default
"" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in .
Disclosed Matters
Schedule 1.01
"" means, on any date of determination, with respect to any amount in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent in dollars of such amount, determined by the Administrative Agent using the Exchange Rate with respect to such Alternative Currency then in effect as determined pursuant to .
Dollar Equivalent
Section 2.20(a)
"" or "" refers to lawful money of the United States of America.
dollars
$
 
"" means the economic and monetary union in accordance with the Treaty of Rome 1957, as amended by the Single European Act 1986, the Maastricht Treaty of 1992 and the Amsterdam Treaty of 1998.
EMU
"" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
"" means all (a) laws, rules, regulations, codes and ordinances and (b) all orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority and by or affecting the Borrower, in each case relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA.
ERISA Event
 
"" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate ("BBA LIBOR"), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurocurrency Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurocurrency market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
"" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in .
Events of Default
Section 7.01
"" means, with respect to any Alternative Currency on any date, the Spot Rate determined in accordance with .
Exchange Rate
Section 1.05
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 2.19(b)
Section 2.17(e)
Section 2.17(a)
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in .
Extension Notice
Section 2.22
"" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal
Federal Funds Rate
 
Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; provided that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Advance (other than a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Competitive Advance), the fixed rate of interest per annum specified by the Lender making such Competitive Advance in its related Competitive Bid.
Fixed Rate
"" means a Competitive Advance bearing interest at a Fixed Rate.
Fixed Rate Loan
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
"" means a Subsidiary that is not organized under the laws of the United States, any state thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Subsidiary
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; , that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
 
"" means, collectively, each Subsidiary party to the Guaranty as of the Closing Date and each other Subsidiary of the Borrower that executes and delivers a guaranty or guaranty supplement pursuant to .
Guarantors
Section 5.08
"" means the Guaranty made by the Guarantors in favor of the Secured Parties, substantially in the form of , together with each other guaranty and guaranty supplement delivered pursuant to .
Guaranty
Exhibit E
Section 5.08
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means any interest rate protection agreement, foreign currency exchange agreement, commodity price protection agreement or other interest or currency exchange rate or commodity price hedging arrangement.
Hedging Agreement
"" has the meaning specified in .
Increase Effective Date
Section 2.21
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business), (d) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed (if such Person has not assumed such Indebtedness of others, then the amount of Indebtedness of such Person shall be the lesser of (A) the amount of such Indebtedness of others and (B) the fair market value of such property, as reasonably determined by the Borrower), (e) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (f) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (g) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of standby letters of credit and letters of guaranty (x) supporting Indebtedness or (y) obtained for any purpose not in the ordinary course of business and (h) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Borrower that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
 
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated August 2007 relating to the Borrower distributed to prospective Lenders in connection with the syndication of the Commitments.
Information Memorandum
"" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with .
Interest Election Request
Section 2.08
"" means (a) with respect to any Base Rate Loan (other than a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the last Business Day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each Business Day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration, after the first day of such Interest Period, (c) with respect to any Fixed Rate Loan, the last Business Day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than 90 days' duration (unless otherwise specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request), each Business Day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of 90 days' duration after the first day of such Interest Period, and any other dates that are specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request as Interest Payment Dates with respect to such Borrowing and (d) with respect to any Swing Line Loan, the Business Day that such Loan is required to be repaid.
Interest Payment Date
"" means (a) with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months thereafter, as the Borrower may elect, and (b) with respect to any Fixed Rate Borrowing, the period (which shall not be less than 7 days or more than 360 days) commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the date specified in the applicable Competitive Bid Request; , that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
Interest Period
provided
"" means, with respect to any Person, any acquisition or investment (whether or not of a controlling interest) by such Person, by means of any of the following: (a) the purchase or other acquisition of any equity interest in another Person, (b) a loan, advance or extension of credit to, capital contribution to, Guarantee of obligations of, or purchase or other acquisition of any Indebtedness of, another Person, including any partnership or joint venture interest in such other Person, or (c) the purchase or other acquisition (in one transaction or a series of transactions) of all or substantially all of the assets of another Person that constitute the
Investment
 
business or a division or operating unit of another Person. Any binding commitment to make an Investment in any other Person, as well as any option of another Person to require an Investment in such Person, shall constitute an Investment. For purposes of determining compliance with any covenant contained in this Agreement, the amount of any Investment shall be the amount actually invested, without adjustment for subsequent increases or decreases in the value of such Investment.
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice, Inc. (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
"" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the L/C Issuer and relating to any such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
"" has the meaning specified in .
Judgment Currency
Section 9.14(b)
"" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
"" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been (a) reimbursed by the Borrower in accordance with or (b) refinanced as a Borrowing.
L/C Borrowing
Section 2.06(e)
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the renewal or increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
"" means a payment made by the L/C Issuer pursuant to a Letter of Credit.
L/C Disbursement
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all L/C Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The L/C Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total L/C Exposure at such time.
L/C Exposure
"" means Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, or any successor issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder.
L/C Issuer
"" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit plus the aggregate of all
L/C Obligations
 
Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount remaining to be drawn.
"" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context required, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lenders
"" means any standby letter of credit issued pursuant to this Agreement. Letters of Credit shall be denominated in dollars only.
Letter of Credit
"" means the day that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect.
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
"" means, as of the last day of any fiscal quarter, the ratio as of such day of (i) Total Indebtedness to (ii) Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on such last day.
Leverage Ratio
"" means, with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) equal to the arithmetic average of the rates that appear on the Reuters Screen LIBO Page at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for deposits in dollars or in the applicable Alternative Currency with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "" with respect to such Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which deposits in dollars or in the applicable Alternative Currency approximately equal in principal amount to such Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
LIBO Rate
"" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities.
Lien
"" means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document, each Swap Contract with a Swap Bank, the Fee Letter and the Guaranty.
Loan Documents
"" means a notice of (a) a Borrowing of Revolving Loans or Swing Line Loans, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, in each case, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto.
Loan Notice
Section 2.03
 
"" means, collectively, the Borrower and each Guarantor, or any combination of the foregoing.
Loan Parties
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" means, with respect to any Competitive Advance bearing interest at a rate based on the LIBO Rate, the marginal rate of interest, if any, to be added to or subtracted from the LIBO Rate to determine the rate of interest applicable to such Loan, as specified by the Lender making such Loan in its related Competitive Bid.
Margin
"" means "margin stock" as defined in Regulation U of the Board.
Margin Stock
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, operations, prospects or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders pursuant to this Agreement.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Hedging Agreements, of any one or more of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $25,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Hedging Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Hedging Agreement were terminated at such time.
Material Indebtedness
"" means any direct or indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower which (a) has total assets equal to or greater than 5% of Consolidated Tangible Assets (calculated as of the most recent fiscal period with respect to which the Lenders shall have received financial statements required to be delivered pursuant to or  (or if prior to delivery of any financial statements pursuant to such Sections, then calculated with respect to the year end financial statements referenced in (the "Required Financial Information")) or (b) has income equal to or greater than 5% of Consolidated Net Income (calculated for the most recent period for which the Lenders have received the Required Financial Information); , , that notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Material Subsidiary" shall mean each of those Subsidiaries that together with the Borrower and each other Material Subsidiary (i) have assets equal to not less than 80% of Consolidated Tangible Assets (calculated as described above) and (ii) generate not less than 80% of Consolidated Net Income; that if more than one combination of Subsidiaries satisfies such threshold, then those Subsidiaries so determined to be "Material Subsidiaries" shall be specified by the Borrower; , , that there shall be excluded from the definition of "Material Subsidiaries" and the computations set forth above, any Foreign Subsidiaries.
Material Subsidiary
Sections 5.01(a)
(b)
Section 3.04(a))
provided
however
provided further
provided
further
"" means the fifth anniversary of the date of this Agreement, as such date may be extended pursuant to .
Maturity Date
Section 2.22
 
"" means a request by the Borrower, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, for the extension of the Maturity Date pursuant to .
Maturity Date Extension Request
Section 2.22
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means NCR corporation, a Maryland corporation.
NCR
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in .
Non-Consenting Lender
Section 2.22
"" means a sale of accounts receivable by the Borrower or a Subsidiary to a Person that is not an Affiliate of the Borrower for fair value (, reflecting a fair market discount from face value) and solely for cash consideration payable at the time of such sale; that neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary provides any Guarantee with respect to the payment or collection of any such account receivable or any portion thereof and the purchaser has no recourse to the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or to their assets, in the event of nonpayment of all or any portion of any such account receivable; , , that customary representations and warranties of the Borrower or a Subsidiary in connection with any such sale as to the ownership, validity, absence of Liens, setoff rights and counterclaims and similar matters with respect to the accounts receivable sold (but not as to collectability or creditworthiness of the account debtor) shall not preclude treatment of a sale of such receivables as a Non-Recourse Receivables Sale.
Non-Recourse Receivables Sale
i.e.
provided
provided
further
"" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a note and evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of hereto.
Note
Exhibit D
"" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities, obligations, covenants and duties of, any Loan Party arising under any Loan Document (including Swap Contract entered into after the date of this Agreement to which a Swap Bank is a party entered into after the date of this Agreement) or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against any Loan Party or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Obligations of the Borrower under the Loan Documents include (a) the obligation to pay principal, interest, Letter of Credit commissions, charges, expenses, fees, reasonable attorney fees and disbursements, indemnities and other amounts payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document and (b) the obligations of the Borrower to reimburse any amount in respect of any of the foregoing that any Lender, in its sole discretion, may elect to pay or advance on behalf of the Borrower.
Obligations
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or any other Loan Document from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
Other Taxes
 
"" means (a) with respect to Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the Dollar Equivalent Amount of the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date; and (b) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
(a) Liens imposed by law for taxes that are not yet due or are being contested in compliance with ;
Section 5.04
(b) Liens upon the equity interest or assets of any subsidiary that is not a Material Subsidiary securing claims in an aggregate amount at any time outstanding that does not exceed $15,000,000;
(c) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or are being contested in compliance with;
Section 5.04
(d) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
(e) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business; and
(f) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary;
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
 
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Platform
Section 5.02
"" means, as of any date of determination, the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate." The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Prime Rate
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Public Lender
Section 5.02
"" has the meaning set forth in .
Register
Section 9.04(c)
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Loans, a Loan Notice, (b) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, (c) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Loan Notice and, with respect to a Competitive Advance, a request for Competitive Advance made in accordance with .
Request for Credit Extension
Section 2.04
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing at least 66 2/3% of the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Extension Lenders
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing at least 51% of the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure and unused Commitments at such time; that, for purposes of declaring the Loans to be due and payable pursuant to if the Commitments have expired or terminated, and for all purposes after the Loans become due and payable pursuant to and the Commitments expire or terminate, the outstanding Competitive Advances of the Lenders shall be included in their respective Revolving Credit Exposures in determining the Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
Article VII
Article VII
"" shall have the meaning assigned to such term in .
Reset Date
Section 2.20(a)
 
"" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of a Loan Party. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of a Loan Party shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of such Loan Party and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of such Loan Party.
Responsible Officer
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans denominated in dollars, its Alternative Currency Exposure and its L/C Exposure and Swing Line Exposure at such time.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Loan made pursuant to .
Revolving Loan
Section 2.03
"" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same Day Funds
"" means that certain real property located at 17087 Via Del Campo, 17089 Via Del Campo, 17093 Via Del Campo San Diego CA and 17095 Via Del Campo, San Diego, California, and described as Parcel 2 of Parcel Map No. 13441 filed in the Office of the Recorder of the County of San Diego on August 24, 1984 as Document No. 84-324480 of Official Records.
San Diego Facility
"" has the meaning specified in .
San Diego Excess Amount
Section 6.03(a)
"" means the transaction described in Amendment No. 2 to the Form 10 filed by the Borrower with the SEC on August 21, 2007, including, without limitation, (a) the transfer of all assets and liabilities of the Teradata Data Warehousing business from NCR to the Borrower and (b) the distribution by NCR of all capital stock of the Borrower to the shareholders of NCR, resulting in the shareholders of NCR owning all the capital stock of the Borrower.
Spin-Off
"" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made; that the Administrative Agent may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency.
Spot Rate
provided
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial
subsidiary
parent
 
statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
"" means any subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
"" means any Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender in its capacity as a party to a Swap Contract entered into after the date of this Agreement.
Swap Bank
"" means (a) any and all rate swap transactions, basis swaps, credit derivative transactions, forward rate transactions, commodity swaps, commodity options, forward commodity contracts, equity or equity index swaps or options, bond or bond price or bond index swaps or options or forward bond or forward bond price or forward bond index transactions, interest rate options, forward foreign exchange transactions, cap transactions, floor transactions, collar transactions, currency swap transactions, cross-currency rate swap transactions, currency options, spot contracts, or any other similar transactions or any combination of any of the foregoing (including any options to enter into any of the foregoing), whether or not any such transaction is governed by or subject to any master agreement, and (b) any and all transactions of any kind, and the related confirmations, which are subject to the terms and conditions of, or governed by, any form of master agreement published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., any International Foreign Exchange Master Agreement, or any other master agreement (any such master agreement, together with any related schedules, a "Master Agreement"), including any such obligations or liabilities under any Master Agreement.
Swap Contract
"" means, in respect of any one or more Swap Contracts, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreement relating to such Swap Contracts, (a) for any date on or after the date such Swap Contracts have been closed out and termination value(s) determined in accordance therewith, such termination value(s), and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the amount(s) determined as the mark-to-market value(s) for such Swap Contracts, as determined based upon one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in such Swap Contracts (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Swap Termination Value
"" means, with respect to the Swing Line Lender, the Swing Line Lender's commitment to make Swing Line Loans from time to time hereunder in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $50,000,000 at any time outstanding.
Swing Line Commitment
"" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swing Line Loans outstanding at such time. The Swing Line Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swing Line Exposure at such time.
Swing Line Exposure
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A. in its capacity as lender of Swing Line Loans hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
"" means a Loan made pursuant to .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.05
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
"" means, as of any date, the aggregate amount of Indebtedness of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on such date, without duplication, as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP and regardless of whether such Indebtedness would be reflected on a balance sheet.
Total Indebtedness
"" means, as of any date of determination, the aggregate amount of outstanding Revolving Loans, Competitive Advances, Swing Line Loans and L/C Exposure on such day.
Total Outstandings
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, the borrowing of Loans, the use of the proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Eurocurrency Rate, the Base Rate or, in the case of a Competitive Advance or Borrowing, the LIBO Rate or a Fixed Rate.
Type
"" means any Acquisition that has not, at the time of the first public announcement of an offer relating thereto, been approved by the board of directors of the Person to be acquired. For purposes of this definition, "" shall mean any transaction or series of related transactions for the purpose of or resulting, directly or indirectly, in (a) the acquisition of all or substantially all of the assets of a Person, or of any business or division of a Person, (b) the acquisition of in excess of 50% of the capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests or equity of any Person, or otherwise causing any Person to become a subsidiary, or (c) a merger or consolidation or any other combination with another Person (other than a Person that is a Subsidiary) in which the Borrower or a Subsidiary is the surviving entity.
Unfriendly Acquisition
Acquisition
"" means that amount of drawing under a Letter of Credit for which the Borrower fails to reimburse the L/C Issuer in accordance with .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.06(e)
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
Section 1.02 . For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Rate Loan") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving
Classification of Loans and Borrowings
 
Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing").
Section 1.03 The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement, (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights and (f) references to "the date hereof" or "the date of this Agreement" shall refer to the Closing Date.
Terms Generally.
Section 1.04 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
provided
Section 1.05 . (a) The Administrative Agent shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Calculation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Revolving Loans and Outstanding Amounts denominated in Alternative Currencies. Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Calculation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies until the next Calculation Date to occur. Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by Loan Parties hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than dollars) for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be such Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent.
Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents
 
(b) Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a Borrowing, conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple amount, is expressed in dollars, but such Eurocurrency Rate Loan is denominated in an Alternative Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency Equivalent of such dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Section 1.06 . (a) The Borrower may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Loans be made in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" provided that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into dollars. In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
Additional Alternative Currencies
(b) Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., 20 Business Days prior to the date of the desired Credit Extension (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion). In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans) shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 11:00 a.m., ten Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency.
(c) Any failure by a Lender to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender to permit Eurocurrency Rate Loans to be made in such requested currency. If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Borrower and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any Borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Loans. If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this , the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify the Borrower.
Section 1.05
Section 1.07 . (a) Each obligation of the Borrowers to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; provided that if any Borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such Borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
Change of Currency
 
(b) Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
(c) Each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.
Section 1.08 . Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
Times of Day
Section 2.01 . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period denominated in dollars or in any Alternative Currency in an aggregate principal amount that will not at any time result in (i) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment, (ii) the sum of Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Advances exceeding the Aggregate Commitments or (iii) the Alternative Currency Exposure exceeding $100,000,000. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under and reborrow Revolving Loans under this .
Commitments
Section 2.01
Section 2.11
Section 2.01
Section 2.02 . (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. Each Competitive Advance shall be made in accordance with the procedures set forth in . The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments, Swing Line Commitments and Competitive Bids of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required.
Loans and Borrowings
Section 2.04
provided
(b) Subject to , (i) each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Base Rate Loans or Eurocurrency Rate Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith, and (ii) each Competitive Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of Eurocurrency Rate Loans or Fixed Rate Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan . Each Lender at its option may make any Eurocurrency Rate Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
Section 2.14
provided
 
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate principal amount that (i) if such Borrowing is denominated in dollars, is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 or (ii) in the case of any Alternative Currency Borrowing, in an aggregate principal amount the Dollar Equivalent of which is not less than $5,000,000. At the time that each Base Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000; that a Base Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the Aggregate Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as contemplated by . Each Competitive Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000. Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time.
provided
Section 2.06(e)
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
Section 2.03 . (a) To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (i) in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing or (ii) in the case of a Base Rate Loan Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that any such Loan Notice of a Base Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as contemplated by may be given not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Loan Notice signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request and Loan Notice shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Requests for Revolving Borrowings
provided
Section 2.06(e)
Section 2.02
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be a Base Rate Loan Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing;
(iv) in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing, the currency in which such Borrowing is to be denominated;
(v) in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
 
(vi) the location and number of the Borrower's account (or other recipient's account designated in accordance with ) to which funds are to be disbursed.
Section 2.03(b)
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be a Base Rate Loan Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. If no election as to currency is specified with respect to any Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected dollars. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
(b) Following receipt of a Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Loans, and if no timely Loan Notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans or continuation of Loans denominated in a currency other than dollars, in each case as described in the preceding subsection (a). In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in Same Day Funds at the Administrative Agent's Office for the applicable currency not later than 1:00 p.m. in the case of Revolving Loans denominated in dollars and not later than the applicable time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of Alternative Currency Loans, in each case on the Business Day specified in the applicable Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting an account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing denominated in dollars is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing shall be applied, , to the payment in full of any such L/C Credit Extensions, and , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
provided
however
first
second
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurocurrency Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans (whether in dollars or an Alternative Currency) without the consent of the Required Lenders, and the Required Lenders may demand that any or all of the then outstanding Alternative Currency Loans be prepaid or redenominated into dollars in the amount of the Dollar Equivalent thereof on the last day of the current interest period with respect thereto.
 
(d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurocurrency Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
(e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Loans.
(f) The failure of any Lender to make any Loan to be made by it as part of any Borrowing shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligation, if any, hereunder to make its Loan on the date of such Borrowing, but no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to make any Loan to be made by such other Lender on the date of any Borrowing.
Section 2.04 . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, at any time and from time to time prior to the end of the Availability Period the Borrower may request Competitive Bids for Competitive Advances denominated in dollars and may (but shall not have any obligation to) accept Competitive Bids and borrow Competitive Advances; that the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Advances at any time shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments. To request Competitive Bids, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, four Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing and, in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing; that the Borrower may submit up to (but not more than) two Competitive Bid Requests on the same day, but a Competitive Bid Request shall not be made within five Business Days after the date of any previous Competitive Bid Request, unless any and all such previous Competitive Bid Requests shall have been withdrawn or all Competitive Bids received in response thereto rejected. Each such telephonic Competitive Bid Request shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Competitive Bid Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Competitive Bid Request shall specify the following information in compliance with :
Competitive Bid Procedure
provided
provided
Section 2.02
(i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing;
(ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether such Borrowing is to be a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing or a Fixed Rate Borrowing;
(iv) the Interest Period to be applicable to such Borrowing, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and
 
(v) the location and number of the Borrower's account (or other recipient's account) to which funds are to be disbursed.
The Borrower may at its election specify certain alternatives in respect of which the Lenders may submit alternative bids in the applicable Competitive Bid. Promptly following receipt of a Competitive Bid Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of the details thereof by telecopy, inviting the Lenders to submit Competitive Bids.
(b) Each Lender may (but shall not have any obligation to) make one or more Competitive Bids to the Borrower in response to a Competitive Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid by a Lender must be in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and must be received by the Administrative Agent by telecopy, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Competitive Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of such Competitive Borrowing. Competitive Bids that do not conform substantially to the form approved by the Administrative Agent may be rejected by the Administrative Agent, and the Administrative Agent shall notify the applicable Lender as promptly as practicable. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (i) the principal amount (which shall be a minimum of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and which may equal the entire principal amount of the Competitive Borrowing requested by the Borrower) of the Competitive Advance or Loans that the Lender is willing to make, (ii) the Competitive Bid Rate or Rates at which the Lender is prepared to make such Loan or Loans (expressed as a percentage rate per annum in the form of a decimal to no more than four decimal places) and (iii) the Interest Period applicable to each such Loan and the last day thereof. In the event the Borrower has requested that alternative bids be included in a Competitive Bid, such Competitive Bid shall include the information set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) in respect of each alternative in respect of which the applicable Lender wishes to bid.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower by telecopy of the Competitive Bid Rate and the principal amount specified in each Competitive Bid and the identity of the Lender that shall have made such Competitive Bid or, in the event the Borrower has requested alternative bids, the respective Competitive Bid Rate in respect of each offered alternative and the identity of the Lender that shall have made such Competitive Bid.
(d) Subject only to the provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower may accept or reject any Competitive Bid. The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone, confirmed by telecopy in a form approved by the Administrative Agent, whether and to what extent it has decided to accept or reject each Competitive Bid, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Competitive Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Competitive Borrowing, and in the case of a Fixed Rate Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., New York City time, on the proposed date of the Competitive Borrowing; that (i) the failure of the Borrower to give such Loan Notice shall be deemed to be a rejection of each Competitive Bid, (ii) the Borrower shall not accept a Competitive Bid in respect of any alternative made at a particular Competitive Bid Rate if the Borrower rejects a Competitive Bid made in respect of such alternative at a lower Competitive Bid Rate, (iii) the aggregate amount of the Competitive Bids accepted by the
provided
 
Borrower shall not exceed the aggregate amount of the requested Competitive Borrowing specified in the related Competitive Bid Request, (iv) to the extent necessary to comply with clause (iii) above, the Borrower may accept Competitive Bids at the same Competitive Bid Rate in part, which acceptance, in the case of multiple Competitive Bids at such Competitive Bid Rate, shall be made pro rata in accordance with the amount of each such Competitive Bid, and (v) except pursuant to clause (iv) above, no Competitive Bid shall be accepted for a Competitive Advance unless such Competitive Advance is in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and an integral multiple of $1,000,000; that if a Competitive Advance must be in an amount less than $5,000,000 because of the provisions of clause (iv) above, such Competitive Advance may be for a minimum of $1,000,000 or any integral multiple thereof, and in calculating the pro rata allocation of acceptances of portions of multiple Competitive Bids at a particular Competitive Bid Rate pursuant to clause (iv) above the amounts shall be rounded to integral multiples of $1,000,000 in a manner determined by the Borrower. A Loan Notice given by the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph shall be irrevocable.
provided
further
(e) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each bidding Lender by telecopy whether or not its Competitive Bid has been accepted (and, if so, the amount and Competitive Bid Rate so accepted), and each successful bidder will thereupon become bound, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, to make the Competitive Advance in respect of which its Competitive Bid has been accepted.
(f) If the Administrative Agent shall elect to submit a Competitive Bid in its capacity as a Lender, it shall submit such Competitive Bid directly to the Borrower at least one quarter of an hour earlier than the time by which the other Lenders are required to submit their Competitive Bids to the Administrative Agent pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.
Section 2.05 . (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees to make Swing Line Loans denominated in dollars to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swing Line Loans exceeding $50,000,000 or (ii) the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Advances exceeding the Aggregate Commitments; that the Swing Line Lender shall not be required to, but may make Swing Line Loans to refinance outstanding Swing Line Loans. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swing Line Loans. Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $1,000,000; that a Swing Line Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is required to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as contemplated by .
Swing Line Loans
provided
provided
Section 2.06(e)
(b) To request a Swing Line Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swing Line Borrowing. Each such Loan Notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swing Line Borrowing. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swing Line Lender of any such Loan Notice received from the Borrower. The Swing
 
Line Lender shall, subject to satisfaction of the conditions set forth in , make the Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of the Borrower with the Swing Line Lender (or, in the case of a Swing Line Borrowing made to finance the reimbursement of an L/C Disbursement as provided in , by remittance to the L/C Issuer) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swing Line Borrowing.
Section 4.02
Section 2.06(e)
(c) The Swing Line Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of such Swing Line Lender's Swing Line Loans outstanding. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swing Line Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swing Line Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swing Line Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swing Line Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swing Line Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swing Line Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swing Line Lender. Any amounts received by the Swing Line Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swing Line Loan after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swing Line Lender, as their interests may appear. The purchase of participations in a Swing Line Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
Section 2.07
Section 2.07
mutatis
mutandis
Section 2.06 . (a) (i) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , that the Borrower may request the issuance of standby Letters of Credit denominated in dollars, for its own account, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, the L/C Issuer relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.
Letters of Credit
General
Section 2.06
 
(i) The L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit, if:
(A) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date;
(B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date;
(C) immediately before or after giving effect to such Letter of Credit, the L/C Exposure exceeds or would exceed $100,000,000;
(D) immediately before or after giving effect to such Letter of Credit, the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Advances exceeds or would exceed the Aggregate Commitments; or
(E) the currency requested for such Letter of Credit is anything other than dollars.
(ii) The L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
(A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
(B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate any Laws or one or more policies of the L/C Issuer applicable to letters of credit generally;
(C) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $500,000;
 
(D) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than dollars;
(E) such Letter of Credit contains any provisions for automatic reinstatement of the stated amount after any drawing thereunder; or
(F) a default of any Lender's obligations to fund under exists or any Lender is at such time a Defaulting Lender hereunder, unless the L/C Issuer has entered into satisfactory arrangements with the Borrower or such Lender to eliminate the L/C Issuer's risk with respect to such Lender.
Section 2.06(d)
(iii) The L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if the L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
(iv) The L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
(v) The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
Article VIII
Article VIII
(b) .
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
(i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer the following: (A) the proposed
 
issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount and currency thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (G) the purpose and nature of the requested Letter of Credit; and (H) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer the following: (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
(ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or any Loan Party, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage times the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
(iii) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
(c) . By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the L/C Issuer or the Lenders, the L/C Issuer hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from the L/C Issuer, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of
Participations
 
Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the L/C Issuer, the Lender's Applicable Percentage of each L/C Disbursement made by such L/C Issuer and not reimbursed by the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
(d) . If the L/C Issuer shall make any L/C Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the Borrower shall reimburse such L/C Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such L/C Disbursement not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date that such L/C Disbursement is made, if the Borrower shall have received notice of such L/C Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by the Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on (i) the Business Day the Borrower receives such notice if such notice is received prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of receipt, or (ii) the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; that, if such L/C Disbursement is not less than $5,000,000 or $1,000,000, respectively, the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with or that such payment be financed with a Base Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing or Swing Line Borrowing in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting Base Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing or Swing Line Borrowing. If the Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable L/C Disbursement, the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the same manner as provided in with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the L/C Issuer the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the L/C Issuer or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the L/C Issuer, then to such Lenders and the L/C Issuer as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any L/C Disbursement (other than the funding of Base Rate Loan Revolving Loans or Swing Line Loans as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such L/C Disbursement.
Reimbursement
provided
Section 2.03
2.05
Section 2.07
Section 2.07
mutatis
mutandis
(e) . The Borrower's obligation to reimburse L/C Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and
Obligations Absolute
 
irrevocable and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder, or (v) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor the L/C Issuer, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the L/C Issuer; that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse the L/C Issuer from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by the L/C Issuer's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the L/C Issuer, the L/C Issuer shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
provided
(f) . The L/C Issuer shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit and shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether the L/C Issuer has made or will make an L/C Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse the L/C Issuer and the Lenders with respect to any such L/C Disbursement.
Disbursement Procedures
provided
 
(g) . If the L/C Issuer shall make any L/C Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such L/C Disbursement in full on the date such L/C Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such L/C Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that the Borrower reimburses such L/C Disbursement, at the rate per annum then applicable to Base Rate Loan Revolving Loans; that, if the Borrower fails to reimburse such L/C Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the L/C Issuer, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse the L/C Issuer shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest
provided
Section 2.13(d)
(h) . The L/C Issuer may be replaced at any time by written agreement among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the replaced L/C Issuer and the successor L/C Issuer. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such replacement of the L/C Issuer. At the time any such replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the replaced L/C Issuer pursuant to . From and after the effective date of any such replacement, (i) the successor L/C Issuer shall have all the rights and obligations of the replaced L/C Issuer under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued by such successor L/C Issuer thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "L/C Issuer" shall be deemed to refer to such successor or to any previous L/C Issuer, or to such successor and all previous L/C Issuers, as the context shall require. After the replacement of an L/C Issuer hereunder, the replaced L/C Issuer shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an L/C Issuer under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit.
Replacement of an L/C Issuer
Section 2.12(b)
(i) . If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the L/C Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of . Such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the L/C Issuer for L/C Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the L/C Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, be applied to satisfy other obligations of the
Cash Collateralization
provided
Article VII
 
Borrower under this Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
(j) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued, the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
(k) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage a Letter of Credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate times the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) due and payable on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand and (ii) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
(l) . The Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit, at the rate per annum specified in the Fee Letter, computed on the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit on a quarterly basis in arrears Such fronting fee shall be due and payable on the tenth Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December in respect of the most recently-ended quarterly period (or portion thereof, in the case of the first payment), commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. In addition, the Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of the L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
Section 2.07 . (a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein and except with respect to principal of and interest on Alternative Currency Loans, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 12:00 noon on the date specified herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder with respect to principal and interest on Alternative Currency Loans shall be made to the
Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
General
 
Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Administrative Agent's Office in such Alternative Currency and in Same Day Funds not later than the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent on the dates specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States. If, for any reason, the Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, the Borrower shall make such payment in dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 12:00 noon, in the case of payments in dollars, or (ii) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, prior to 12:00 noon on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the Overnight Rate, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.03
Section 2.03
(ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower
Payments by Borrowers; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
 
prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, in Same Day Funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Overnight Rate.
A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
(c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender to the Borrower as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
(d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 9.03(c)
Section 9.03(c)
Section 9.03(c)
(e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
Section 2.08 . (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Loan Notice and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Loan Notice. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate
Interest Elections
 
Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Competitive Borrowings or Swing Line Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued.
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under (immediately followed by a Loan Notice) if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request and corresponding written Loan Notice shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower.
Section 2.03
(c) Each telephonic Interest Election Request and subsequent written Loan Notice shall specify the following information in compliance with:
Section 2.02
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing);
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be a Base Rate Loan Borrowing or a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing.
(e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing denominated in dollars prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to a Base Rate Loan Borrowing. If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Alternative Currency Borrowing, then such Alternative Currency Borrowing shall, at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, become due and payable. Notwithstanding any contrary
 
provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to a Base Rate Loan Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
Section 2.09 . (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall automatically and permanently terminate on the Maturity Date.
Termination and Reduction of Commitments
(b) The Borrower may on three Business Days' notice at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with , the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Advances would exceed the Aggregate Commitments.
provided
Section 2.11
(c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
Section 2.10 . (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan made by such Lender on the Maturity Date, (ii) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Competitive Advance on the last day of the Interest Period applicable to such Loan and (iii) to the Swing Line Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swing Line Loan made by the Swing Line Lender on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the first date after the Swing Line Loan is made that is the 15th or last day of a calendar month and is at least four Business Days after such Swing Line Loan is made; that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing or Competitive Borrowing is made, the Borrower shall repay all Swing Line Loans then outstanding.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from
 
each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima
facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to ) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
Section 9.04
Section 2.11 . (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (b) of this Section; that the Borrower shall not have the right to prepay any Competitive Advance without the prior consent of the Lender thereof.
Prepayment of Loans
provided
(b) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swing Line Borrowing, the Swing Line Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment under paragraph (a) above or to comply with paragraph (c) below or with (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of a Base Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swing Line Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by , then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with . Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in
Section 2.20(b)
provided
Section 2.09(c)
Section 2.09(c)
 
the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in . Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by .
Section 2.02
Section 2.13
(c) In the event of any termination of the Commitments, the Borrower shall on the date of such termination reduce the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure to zero and prepay all outstanding Competitive Advances.
Section 2.12 . In addition to certain fees described in :
Fees
Section 2.06
(a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee in dollars equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Outstanding Amount of all Loans, Swing Line Loans and L/C Obligations), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Loans, Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). On each such payment date, the amount of facility fee which has accrued to but excluding such payment date shall be due and payable. The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
(b) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a utilization fee in Dollars equal to the Applicable Rate times the Total Outstandings on each day that the Total Outstandings exceed 50% of the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments then in effect (or, if terminated, in effect immediately prior to such termination). The utilization fee shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period. The utilization fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears. The utilization fee shall accrue at all times, including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met.
Utilization Fee
Article IV
(c) . (i) The Borrower shall pay fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter and in hereof. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Other Fees
Section 2.06
(ii) The Borrower shall pay to the Lenders, in dollars, such fees as shall have been separately agreed upon in writing in the amounts and at the times so specified. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
 
Section 2.13 . (a) The Loans comprising each Base Rate Loan Borrowing (including each Swing Line Loan) shall bear interest at the Base Rate.
Interest
(b) The Loans comprising each Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing shall bear interest (i) in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Loan, at the Eurocurrency Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing the Applicable Rate, or (ii) in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Competitive Advance, at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing (or minus, as applicable) the Margin applicable to such Loan.
plus
plus
(c) Each Fixed Rate Loan shall bear interest at the Fixed Rate applicable to such Loan.
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to Base Rate Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section or, if higher, in the case of any amount denominated in a Alternative Currency, the cost to the Lenders, as reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent, of maintaining such outstanding amount in the applicable currency.
(e) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an Base Rate Loan Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment, (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion and (iv) all accrued interest shall be payable upon termination of the Commitments. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
provided
(f) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to (i) the Base Rate at times when the Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate and (ii) the Eurocurrency Rate with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Loans are denominated in British Pounds Sterling or Yen shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Base Rate, Eurocurrency Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.14 . If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest
 
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Eurocurrency Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for Loans denominated in the currency of such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders (or, in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Competitive Advance, the Lender that is required to make such Loan) that the Eurocurrency Rate or the LIBO Rate, as applicable, for Loans denominated in the currency of such Borrowing for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; or
(c) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that deposits in the applicable currency in the principal amounts of the Loans comprising such Borrowing are not generally available in the London interbank market or any other market in which the Lenders shall be funding such Loans;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Borrowing in the affected currency shall be ineffective, (ii) if the affected currency is dollars and any Loan Notice requests a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as a Base Rate Loan Borrowing, (iii) if any Loan Notice requests a Alternative Currency Borrowing denominated in the affected currency, such request shall be ineffective and (iv) if the affected currency is dollars, any request by the Borrower for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan Competitive Borrowing shall be ineffective; that (A) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice do not affect all the Lenders, then requests by the Borrower for Eurocurrency Rate Loan Competitive Borrowings may be made to Lenders that are not affected thereby and (B) if the circumstances giving rise to such notice affect only one Type of Borrowings, then the other Type of Borrowings shall be permitted.
provided
Section 2.15 . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Eurocurrency Rate) or the L/C Issuer; or
(ii) impose on any Lender or the L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurocurrency Rate Loans or Fixed Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Fixed Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or the L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the L/C Issuer to a level below that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or such L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) A certificate of a Lender or the L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation; that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 270 days prior to the date that such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 270-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided
further
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, a Lender shall not be entitled to compensation pursuant to this Section in respect of any Competitive Advance if the Change in Law that would otherwise entitle it to such compensation shall have been publicly announced prior to submission of the Competitive Bid pursuant to which such Loan was made.
 
Section 2.16 . In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Fixed Rate Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurocurrency Rate Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Revolving Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under and is revoked in accordance therewith), (d) the failure to borrow any Competitive Advance after accepting the Competitive Bid to make such Loan, or (e) the assignment of any Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Fixed Rate Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to , then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Eurocurrency Rate (in the case of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan) that would have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for deposits in the applicable currency of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the eurocurrency market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
Break Funding Payments
Section 2.11(b)
Section 2.19
Section 2.17 . (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes
provided
(b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the L/C Issuer within 10 Business Days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable
 
expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or the L/C Issuer, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable Law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is a resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
(i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
(ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
(iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
 
(iv) any other form prescribed by applicable Law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable Law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
Section 2.18 . (a) Except as may be reasonably specified on reasonable notice by the Administrative Agent as it from time to time deems necessary or appropriate with respect to any Alternative Currency, the Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of L/C Disbursements, or of amounts payable under , or , or otherwise) from a location in the United States of America prior to 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's Office, except payments to be made directly to the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to , , and shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars or the applicable Alternative Currency, as the case may be.
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs
Section 2.15
2.16
2.17
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
9.03
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed L/C Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed L/C Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed L/C Disbursements then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in L/C Disbursements or Swing Line Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in L/C Disbursements and Swing Line Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in L/C Disbursements and Swing Line Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in L/C Disbursements and Swing Line Loans; that (i) if any such
provided
 
participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in L/C Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the Federal Funds Rate.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to , or , or , then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
Section 2.05(c)
2.06(d)
(e)
2.07(b)
2.18(c)
Section 2.19 . (a) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
Section 2.15
2.17
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender defaults in its obligation
Section 2.15
Section 2.17
 
to fund Loans hereunder, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in ), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement (other than any outstanding Competitive Advances held by it) to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and, if a Commitment is being assigned, the L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender), which consents shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans (other than Competitive Advances) and participations in L/C Disbursements and Swing Line Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
Section 9.04
provided
Section 2.15
Section 2.20 . (a) On each Calculation Date, the Administrative Agent shall (i) determine the Exchange Rate as of such Calculation Date with respect to each Alternative Currency and (ii) give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders. The Exchange Rates so determined shall become effective on the first Business Day immediately following the relevant Calculation Date (each a ""), shall remain effective until the next succeeding Reset Date and shall during the period of their effectiveness be employed in making any computation of currency equivalents required to be made under this Agreement (other than any computation required under ). Not later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on each Reset Date, on the date of each Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall (i) determine the Dollar Equivalents of each Alternative Currency Loan then outstanding (after giving effect to any Alternative Currency Loan made or repaid on such date) and (ii) notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the results of such determination.
Currency Equivalents; Currency Fluctuations
Reset Date
Section 9.14
(b) If on any Reset Date or on the date of any Borrowing (after giving effect to any Loans to be made or repaid on such date and to any increase or decrease in the L/C Exposure to occur on such date) (i) the Alternative Currency Exposure exceeds $200,000,000 or (ii) the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Advances exceeds the Aggregate Commitments, then the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower of such excess. Not later than four Business Days after receiving such notice the Borrower shall reduce the Alternative Currency Exposure or the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure, as applicable, by an amount sufficient to eliminate such excess; prior to the elimination of (A) any such excess described in clause (i), no further Loans may be made denominated in any currency other than dollars and (B) any such excess described in clause (ii), no further Loans may be made and no new Letter of Credit may be issued. If, as a result of currency exchange rate fluctuations, the Dollar Equivalent of the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding
 
Competitive Advances shall exceed the Aggregate Commitments, the Borrower shall prepay the Loans as necessary to eliminate such excess at the end of applicable interest periods or, if the Dollar Equivalent of the sum of the Aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Competitive Advances exceeds 105% of the Aggregate Commitments, at other times.
Section 2.21 . (a) The Borrower may at any time, by written notice to the Administrative Agent, request Additional Credit Commitments from one or more Additional Credit Lenders, which may include any existing Lender; that at no time shall the aggregate amount of Additional Credit Commitments effected pursuant to this paragraph exceed $200,000,000; that each Additional Credit Lender (and any increase in the Commitment of an Additional Credit Lender that is an existing Lender) shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent, the Swing Line Lender and the L/C Issuer (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld). Each such notice shall set forth (A) the amount of the Additional Credit Commitments being requested (which shall be in a minimum amount of $50,000,000) and (B) the date on which such Additional Credit Commitments are requested to become effective (which shall not be less than ten business days (or such shorter period as may be acceptable to the applicable Additional Credit Lender) nor more than 45 days after the date of such notice (an "")).
Increase in Revolving Commitments
provided
provided further
Increase Effective Date
(b) The Borrower and each Person that in its sole discretion agrees to be an Additional Credit Lender in accordance with paragraph (a) above shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Additional Credit Assumption Agreement and such other documentation as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably specify to evidence the Additional Credit Commitment of such Additional Credit Lender. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender as to the effectiveness of each Additional Credit Assumption Agreement. Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees that, upon the effectiveness of any Additional Credit Assumption Agreement, each such Additional Credit Lender shall, to the extent not an existing Lender, become a Lender hereunder and this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent (but only to the extent) necessary to reflect the existence and terms of the Additional Credit Commitment evidenced thereby.
(c) Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees that the Administrative Agent may take any and all actions as may be reasonably necessary to ensure that, after giving effect to any Additional Credit Commitment pursuant to this , the outstanding Revolving Loans (if any) are held by the Lenders in accordance with their new pro rata percentages. This may be accomplished at the discretion of the Administrative Agent (A) by requiring the outstanding Revolving Loans to be prepaid with the proceeds of a new Borrowing, (B) by causing the existing Lenders to assign portions of their outstanding Loans to Additional Credit Lenders, which assignments shall be deemed to be effective pursuant to or (C) by any combination of the foregoing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to eliminate any break funding liability of the Borrower, if, upon the date that any Additional Credit Commitment becomes effective pursuant to this , there is an unpaid principal amount of Revolving Loans to the Borrower, the principal outstanding amount of all such Revolving Loans shall (x) in the case of such Revolving Loans which are Base Rate Loans, be immediately prepaid by the Borrower (but all such Revolving Loans may, on the terms and conditions hereof,
Section 2.21
Section 9.04
Section 2.21
 
be reborrowed on such date on a pro rata basis, based on the revised Commitments as then in effect) and (y) in the case of such Revolving Loans which are Eurocurrency Rate Loans, continue to remain outstanding (notwithstanding any other requirement in this Agreement that such Revolving Loans be held on a pro rata basis based on the revised Commitments as then in effect) until the end of the then current Interest Period therefor, at which time such Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be paid by the Borrower to the Revolving Lenders on a pro rata basis, based on their Commitments (if any) immediately prior to giving effect to any Additional Credit Commitments (but all such Revolving Loans may, on the terms and conditions hereof, be reborrowed on such date on a pro rata basis, based on the Commitments as then in effect); provided, further, however, that if any Event of Default occurs prior to the end of the then current Interest Period for any such outstanding Eurocurrency Rate Loan Revolving Loan, each Additional Credit Lender will promptly purchase assignments of each such Eurocurrency Rate Loan at par (which assignments shall be deemed effective under ) in such amounts so that immediately after giving effect thereto, such Revolving Eurocurrency Rate Loans are held by the Lenders pro rata in accordance with their Commitments (including the Additional Credit Commitments).
Section 9.04
(d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Additional Credit Commitment shall become effective under this unless on the date of such effectiveness, the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of shall be satisfied and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower.
Section 2.21
Section 4.02
Section 2.22 . (a) The Borrower may by written notice (an "") delivered to the Administrative Agent not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (the "") request a one-year extension of the Existing Maturity Date, that the Maturity Date may not be extended beyond September 30, 2014. Any such notice shall specify any fees that the Borrower agrees to pay as consideration for such extension. Any extension of an Existing Maturity Date shall become effective hereunder if consented to by the Required Extension Lenders pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section and if (i) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of the Extension Notice or the Existing Maturity Date, (ii) the representations and warranties set forth in shall be true and correct in all material respects as if made on the date of such Extension Notice and the Existing Maturity Date, and (iii) the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Existing Maturity Date and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions precedent set forth in clauses (i) and (ii) of this sentence.
Extension of Maturity Date
Extension Notice
Existing Maturity Date
provided
Article III
(b) The effectiveness of any extension of the Maturity Date shall require the prior written consent of the Required Extension Lenders, each Lender participating in such extension of the Maturity Date and the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall promptly furnish a copy of the Extension Notice to each Lender, and shall request that each Lender either agree to such extension or not agree thereto not later than 20 days prior to the Existing Maturity Date. Any Lender not responding within the above time period shall be deemed not to have consented to such extension. The decision to agree or withhold agreement to any extension of the Maturity Date hereunder shall be at the sole discretion of each Lender. The
 
Commitment of any Lender that has declined to agree to any requested extension of the Maturity Date (a "") shall terminate on the Existing Maturity Date, and the principal amount of any outstanding Loans made by such Lender, together with any accrued interest thereon, and any accrued fees and other amounts payable to or for the account of such Lender hereunder, shall be due and payable on the Existing Maturity Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, the Borrower shall have the right, pursuant to , to replace a Non-Consenting Lender with a Lender or other financial institution that will assume the Commitment of such Non-Consenting Lender and agree to an extension of the Maturity Date.
Non-Consenting Lender
Section 2.19(b)
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that:
Section 3.01 . Each of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
Organization; Powers
Section 3.02 . The Transactions are within the Borrower's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Borrower, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Authorization; Enforceability
Section 3.03 . The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate in any material respect any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries or any order of any Governmental Authority, other than any such violation by a Subsidiary that individually or taken together with all such violations by Subsidiaries could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, (c) will not violate in any material respect or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries, other than any such violation or default by a Subsidiary that individually or taken together with all such violations and defaults by Subsidiaries could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts
 
Section 3.04 . (a) The Borrower has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and (ii) as of and for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2007, each certified by its chief financial officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date and for such period in accordance with GAAP, subject to audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change
(b) There has been no material adverse change with respect to the business, operations, performance, properties or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, since December 31, 2006.
Section 3.05 . (a) Each of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for minor defects in title that do not interfere with its ability to conduct its business as currently conducted or to utilize such properties for their intended purposes.
Properties
(b) Except for Disclosed Matters, each of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights and other intellectual property (other than patents) material to its business without written notice of conflict with the rights of any other Person, except for any such conflicts that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Except for Disclosed Matters, neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is aware of any claim that its products or services infringe any third party patent, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Section 3.06 . (a) There are no actions, suits, proceedings or ongoing investigations by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against, nor has the Borrower received written notice threatening any action, suit, proceeding or investigation against or affecting the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries (i) which could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions.
Litigation and Environmental Matters
(b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Borrower nor any of the Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
(c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in, or materially increased the likelihood of, a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 3.07 . Each of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing.
Compliance with Laws and Agreements
Section 3.08 . Neither the Borrower nor any of the Subsidiaries is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Status
Section 3.09 . Each of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves.
Taxes
Section 3.10 . No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. The present value of all accumulated benefit obligations under each Plan (based on the assumptions used for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87) did not, as of the date of the most recent financial statements reflecting such amounts, exceed the fair market value of the assets of such Plan by more than 15%.
ERISA
Section 3.11 . The Borrower has disclosed to the Lenders all agreements, instruments and corporate or other restrictions to which it or any of the Subsidiaries is subject, and all other matters known to it, that, individually or in the aggregate, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. None of the reports, financial statements, certificates or other information, including the Information Memorandum, furnished by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), as of the date furnished or delivered by or on behalf of the Borrower, contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time.
Disclosure
provided
Section 3.12 . (a) Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is engaged principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.
Federal Reserve Regulations
(b) No Letter of Credit and no part of the proceeds of the Loans will be used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, (i) to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or
 
carrying Margin Stock or to refund Indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose, or (ii) for any purpose which entails a violation of, or which is inconsistent with, the provisions of the Regulations of the Board, including, without limitation, Regulation T, U or X thereof.
Section 3.13 . The Letters of Credit and the proceeds of the Loans will be used only for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, including acquisitions, subject to the limitations set forth in .
Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit
Section 6.05
Section 3.14 . As of the date hereof, the Persons listed on are the only Subsidiaries and the Subsidiaries indicated on such schedule to be Material Subsidiaries are the only Material Subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries
Schedule 3.14
Section 4.01 . The obligation of the L/C Issuer and each of the Lenders to make their initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
(a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the signing Loan Party, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
(i) executed counterparts of this Agreement and the Guaranty, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
(ii) an original Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note;
(iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of each Loan Party as the Administrative Agent may require evidencing the identity, authority and capacity of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer on behalf of such Loan Party in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which such Loan Party is a party;
(iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that each Loan Party is duly organized or formed, and that each of the Borrower and Guarantors is validly existing, in good standing and qualified to engage in business in each jurisdiction where its ownership, lease or operation of properties or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except to the extent that failure to do so could not reasonably
 
be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, including, certified copies of the Borrower's Organization Documents, certificates of good standing and/or qualification to engage in business and tax clearance certificates;
(v) favorable written opinions addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated as of the Closing date of (i) Margaret A. Treese, Assistant Secretary of the Borrower and (ii) Sidley Austin LLP, special counsel to the Borrower, substantially in the forms set forth in Exhibits B-1 and B-2, respectively, and covering such other matters relating to the Borrower, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby as the Required Lenders shall reasonable request;
(vi) a certificate of a Responsible Officer of each Loan Party either (A) attaching copies of all consents, licenses and approvals of Governmental Authorities and other Persons required in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Loan Party and the validity against such Loan Party of the Loan Documents to which it is a party, and, required in connection with the Loan Documents and the transactions contemplated thereby, and such consents, licenses and approvals shall be in full force and effect, or (B) stating that no such consents, licenses or approvals are so required;
(vii) copies of the financial statements referred to in and , and a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying (A) that the conditions specified in and  have been satisfied, (B) that there has been no event or circumstance since the date of the Audited Financial Statements for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, that has had or could be reasonably expected to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect; and (C) compliance with and as of the most recent fiscal quarter end; and
Sections 5.01(a)
(b)
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
Section 6.11
6.12
(viii) such other assurances, certificates, documents, consents or opinions as the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, the Swing Line Lender or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
(b) Any fees and expenses required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
(c) The Spin-Off shall have been completed.
(d) The Borrower shall have paid all fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements of counsel as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements of counsel incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings ( that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
provided
 
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of the last paragraph of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.02
Section 4.01
Section 4.02 . The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans), an Extension Notice in accordance with or a request for Additional Credit Commitments in accordance with is subject to the following conditions precedent:
Conditions to all Credit Extensions
Section 2.22
Section 2.21
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrower and each other Loan Party contained in or any other Loan Document, or which are contained in any document furnished at any time under or in connection herewith or therewith, shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, any Extension Notice and any Increase Effective Date, (i) except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date, (ii) except that for purposes of this , the representations and warranties contained in shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to subsections (a) and (b), respectively, of and (iii) together with any additional items that will be disclosed on updated Schedules delivered on the next scheduled delivery date, as to which the Borrower has notified the Administrative Agent in writing.
Article V
Section 4.02
Section 3.04
Section 5.01
(b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof, extension of the Maturity Date in accordance with or increase in Aggregate Commitments in accordance with .
Section 2.22
Section 2.21
(c) The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, shall have received a Request for Credit Extension, the certificate referred to in with respect to an Extension Notice or the certificate referred to in with respect to any increase in Aggregate Commitments, as applicable, in accordance with the requirements hereof.
Section 2.22(a)
Section 2.21(d)
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received such other approvals, opinions or documents as the Required Lenders, through the Administrative Agent, may reasonably request.
Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans), certificate referred to in with respect to an Extension Notice and certificate referred to in with respect to any increase in the Aggregate Commitments, as applicable, submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the
Section 2.22(a)
Section 2.21(d)
 
conditions specified in and  have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension, the effective date of an Extension Notice or the Increase Effective Date, as applicable.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all L/C Disbursements have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 5.01 . The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
Financial Statements and Other Information
(a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers, L.L.P., or other independent registered public accounting firm of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
(b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower, its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Responsible Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Borrower and the consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a Compliance Certificate of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and, if a Default has occurred, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations (A) of the components of the Leverage Ratio as of the last day of the fiscal period in
 
respect of which such financial statements are being delivered and (B) confirming compliance with and and each other provision of imposing a numerical limit, and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in the application thereof has occurred since the date of the Audited Financial Statements referred to in and, if any such change has occurred, specifying the effect of such change on the financial statements accompanying such certificate;
Sections 6.11
6.12
Article VI
Section 3.04
(d) concurrently with any delivery of consolidated financial statements under clause (a) above, a certificate of the accounting firm that reported on such financial statements stating whether they obtained knowledge during the course of their audit of such consolidated financial statements of any Default insofar as it relates to accounting matters (which certificate may be limited to the extent required by accounting rules or guidelines);
(e) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be; and
(f) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request.
Section 5.02 . The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events
(a) the occurrence of any Default;
(b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof that could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in liability of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $25,000,000; and
(d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or
 
development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders (each, a "") may have personnel who do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to any of the Borrowers or their respective Affiliates, or the respective securities of any of the foregoing and who may be engaged in investment and other market-related activities with respect to such Persons' securities. Borrower hereby agrees that (i) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (ii) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC," the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (iii) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor;" and (iv) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor." Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Borrower shall be under any obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC."
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 9.12
Section 5.03 . The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of its business; that the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under .
Existence; Conduct of Business
provided
Section 6.04
Section 5.04 . The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations
Section 5.05 . The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, except to the extent the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the
Maintenance of Properties; Insurance
 
same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations (after giving effect to customary self insurance).
Section 5.06 . The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities (including with respect to ERISA if applicable). The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants, all at such reasonable times and as often as reasonably requested.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights
Section 5.07 . The Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, comply in all material respects with all laws, rules, regulations and orders (including ERISA if applicable) of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except such as may be contested by the Borrower or the applicable Subsidiary in good faith or as to which a bona fide dispute may exist and except for noncompliance by any Subsidiary that individually or taken together with all noncompliance by Subsidiaries could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
Section 5.08 . Within 60 days after the formation or acquisition of any new direct or indirect Material Subsidiary by any Loan Party, the Borrower shall, at the Borrower's expense, (a) cause such Subsidiary, and cause each direct and indirect parent of such Subsidiary (if it has not already done so), to duly execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent a joinder agreement satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, pursuant to which such Material Subsidiary shall join as a party to the Guaranty (or execute and deliver a separate new Guaranty substantially in the form of the existing Guaranty), and (b) if requested by the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders, deliver to the Administrative Agent, a signed copy of a favorable opinion of counsel for the Loan Parties reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent (certain of which opinions, in the Administrative Agent's discretion, may be given by in-house counsel) as to such matters as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request.
Material Subsidiaries
Section 5.09 . The proceeds of the Credit Extensions shall be used for general corporate purposes of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries not in contravention of any Law or any Loan Document.
Use of Proceeds
 
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all L/C Disbursements have been reimbursed, the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
Section 6.01 . The Borrower will not permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except:
Subsidiary Indebtedness
(a) the Obligations;
(b) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary;
(c) Guarantees by any Subsidiary of Indebtedness of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary to the extent such Indebtedness is permitted under this Agreement;
(d) Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary as an account party in respect of trade letters of credit;
(e) Indebtedness of a special purpose subsidiary which is established for the purpose of issuing Indebtedness guaranteed by the Borrower and which does not own any material assets other than an intercompany loan(s) to the Borrower; and
(f) other Indebtedness of the Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time that, when aggregated (without duplication) with the aggregate amount of all claims and obligations secured by Liens permitted pursuant to clause (c) of with the aggregate amount of Attributable Indebtedness incurred in connection with sale and leaseback transactions permitted pursuant to clause (b) of and with any San Diego Excess Amount incurred pursuant to clause (a) of does not exceed the greater of (i) $150,000,000 and (ii) 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets as of the last day of the most recent fiscal period in respect of which financial statements shall have been delivered pursuant to .
Section 6.02,
Section 6.03
Section 6.03
Section 5.01
Section 6.02 . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except:
Liens
(a) Permitted Encumbrances;
 
(b) filings of UCC financing statements or other similar filings in foreign jurisdictions with respect to Non-Recourse Receivables Sales permitted by ; and
Section 6.05
(c) other Liens not otherwise permitted under the foregoing clauses (a) and (b) securing claims in an aggregate amount at any time outstanding that when aggregated (without duplication) with all Indebtedness incurred under clause (e) of with the aggregate amount of Attributable Indebtedness incurred in connection with sale and leaseback transactions permitted pursuant to clause (b) of and with the any San Diego Excess Amount incurred pursuant to clause (a) of does not exceed the greater of (i) $150,000,000 and (ii) 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets as of the last day of the most recent fiscal period in respect of which financial statements shall have been delivered pursuant to .
Section 6.01,
Section 6.03
Section 6.03
Section 5.01
Section 6.03 . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into or permit to exist any arrangement, directly or indirectly, with any Person whereby it shall sell or transfer any property, real or personal, used or useful in its business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, and thereafter rent or lease such property which it intends to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the property being sold or transferred; , , that, notwithstanding the above, the Borrower or any Subsidiary may engage in or permit to exist (a) any sale and leaseback of the San Diego Facility, that if the Attributable Indebtedness incurred in connection therewith exceeds $100,000,000, the amount of such Attributable Indebtedness in excess of $100,000,000 (the "") shall be included in the calculations set forth in , and clause (b) of this , and (b) any other sale and leaseback transaction if, immediately after the consummation of such transaction, the aggregate outstanding amount of Attributable Indebtedness incurred in connection with all sale and leaseback transactions referred to in this clause (b) of , when aggregated (without duplication) with any San Diego Excess Amount incurred under clause (a) of this , all Indebtedness incurred under clause (e) of and with the aggregate amount of all claims and obligations secured by Liens permitted pursuant to clause (c) of , does not exceed the greater of (i) $150,000,000 and (ii) 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets as of the last day of the most recent fiscal period in respect of which financial statements shall have been delivered pursuant to . In addition, and notwithstanding the above, the Borrower and any Subsidiary may, free from the restriction contained in this Section, lease back all or a portion of real property (and any related personal property or fixtures) sold by it, that such lease is for a term not in excess of six months and such sale is not entered into for financing purposes.
Sale and Leaseback Transactions
provided
however
provided
San Diego Excess Amount
Section 6.01(f)
Section 6.02(c)
Section 6.03
Section 6.03
Section 6.03
Section 6.01
Section 6.02
Section 5.01
provided
Section 6.04 . (a) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or substantially all of its assets, or all or substantially all of the stock of any of the Subsidiaries (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (i) any Person may merge into
Fundamental Changes
 
the Borrower in a transaction in which the Borrower is the surviving corporation, (ii) any Person may merge into any Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary, (iii) any Subsidiary that is not a Material Subsidiary may sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of its assets to the Borrower or to another Subsidiary and any Material Subsidiary may sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of its assets to the Borrower or any other Material Subsidiary, (iv) any Subsidiary may merge into any Material Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Material Subsidiary and (v) any Subsidiary that is not a Material Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Borrower determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Borrower and is not materially disadvantageous to the Lenders and any distribution or other transfer of assets in connection with such liquidation or dissolution is made to the Borrower or another Subsidiary in an amount consistent with such Person's ownership percentage of the Subsidiary being dissolved or liquidated.
(b) The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, engage to any material extent in any line of business material to the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, other than businesses currently conducted by the Borrower and the Subsidiaries and businesses in the information technologies or computer industries and businesses reasonably related thereto.
Section 6.05 . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or a substantial portion of its assets (whether now owned or hereafter acquired), except that the Borrower and the Subsidiaries may (i) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of inventory as a part of the outsourcing of a manufacturing activity previous conducted by the Borrower pursuant to which the Borrower or the Subsidiaries intend to repurchase substantially all of such inventory (or goods manufactured therewith) for resale to customers, (ii) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of inventory and obsolete equipment, in the ordinary course of business, (iii) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of property in any individual transaction not related to any other such transaction if the aggregate fair market value of the assets sold, leased or otherwise disposed of in such transaction is less than $5,000,000, (iv) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of property to the Borrower or a Subsidiary in any transaction permitted by , (v) sell accounts receivable in Non-Recourse Receivables Sales, that the aggregate amount of accounts receivable of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries which shall have been sold in Non-Recourse Receivables Sales pursuant to this during any fiscal quarter shall not exceed the greater of (x) $150,000,000 and (y) 15% of the amount equal to the aggregate amount outstanding of all accounts receivable of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries as of the last day of such fiscal quarter plus the aggregate amount of such accounts receivable sold during such quarter in Non-Recourse Receivables Sales, and (vi) sell, lease or otherwise dispose of property in any other transaction otherwise permitted under this Agreement, that the aggregate book value of all assets sold, leased or otherwise disposed of in transactions under this clause (vi) shall not when taken together at the time of each such sale, lease or other disposition exceed the greater of (x) $150,000,000 and (y) 15% of Consolidated Tangible Assets as of the last day of the most recent fiscal period in respect of which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to at such time.
Asset Sales
Section 6.04(a)(iii)
provided
Section 6.05
provided
Section 5.01
 
Section 6.06 . No Credit Extension will be used, (a) whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, (i) to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock or to refund Indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose or (ii) for any purpose which entails a violation of, or which is inconsistent with, the provisions of the Regulations of the Board, including, without limitation, Regulation T, U or X thereof, or (b) directly or through any Subsidiary, to finance any Unfriendly Acquisition, or (c) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a Default, to finance any Acquisition.
Margin Stock; Unfriendly Acquisitions
Section 6.07 . The Borrower will not change its fiscal year end from December 31.
Fiscal Year
Section 6.08 . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of the Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (a) the ability of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its property or assets, or (b) the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any shares of its capital stock or to make or repay loans or advances to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or to Guarantee Indebtedness of the Borrower or any other Subsidiary; that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or by this Agreement, (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing on the date hereof identified on (but shall apply to any amendment or modification expanding the scope of, any such restriction or condition), (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary pending such sale, provided such restrictions and conditions apply only to the Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder, (iv) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness, (v) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in leases and other contracts restricting the assignment thereof, (vi) the foregoing shall not apply to such restrictions and conditions applicable to any Subsidiary acquired after the date hereof if such restrictions and conditions existed at the time such Subsidiary was acquired and were not created in anticipation of such acquisition and (vii) the foregoing shall not apply to one or more Subsidiaries having any such restriction or condition so long as any such Subsidiary is not a Material Subsidiary, and each such Subsidiary together with all other such Subsidiaries in the aggregate shall not account for more than 10% of the gross revenues for the most recently ended fiscal year of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Restrictive Agreements
provided
Schedule 6.08
Section 6.09 . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction of any kind with any Subsidiary that is not a Material Subsidiary (each, a ""), whether or not in the ordinary course of business, other than on fair and reasonable terms substantially favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary as would be obtainable by the Borrower or such Subsidiary at the time in a comparable arms' length transaction with a Person other than a Non-Material Subsidiary.
Transactions with Non-Material Subsidiaries
Non-Material Subsidiary
 
Section 6.10 . The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, hold any Investments, except (a) Investments permitted under and/or and (b) other Investments that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Investments
Section 6.01
Section 6.06
Section 6.11 . The Borrower will not permit the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA to Consolidated Cash Interest Expense for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Cash Interest Coverage Ratio
Section 6.12 . The Borrower will not permit the Leverage Ratio on the last day of any fiscal quarter to be more than 3.00 to 1.00.
Leverage Ratio
Section 7.01 . If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
Events of Default
(a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any L/C Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this ) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of five days;
Article VII
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary in or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been materially incorrect when made or deemed made;
(d) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in or (with respect to the Borrower's existence) or in ;
Section 5.02
5.03
Article VI
(e) the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
 
(f) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall be in default with respect to any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness;
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due or that enables or permits the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof prior to its scheduled maturity and any applicable grace period specified in the agreement or instrument evidencing such Material Indebtedness shall have expired or there occurs under any Swap Contract an Early Termination Date (as defined in such Swap Contract) resulting from (i) any event of default under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is the Defaulting Party (as defined in such Swap Contract) or (ii) any Termination Event (as so defined) under such Swap Contract as to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is an Affected Party (as so defined) and, in either event, the Swap Termination Value owed by the Borrower or such Subsidiary as a result thereof is greater than $50,000,000; that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness if such sale or transfer is permitted under ;
provided
Section 6.05
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Borrower or any Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Borrower or any Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
 
(k) (i) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $25,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment or (ii) any non-monetary judgment, order or decree is entered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary which does or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and there shall be any period of 30 consecutive days during which a stay of enforcement of such judgment or order, by reason of a pending appeal or otherwise, shall not be in effect;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(m) a Change in Control shall occur; or
(n) any provision of any Loan Document (excluding any Swap Contract), at any time after its execution and delivery and for any reason other than as expressly permitted hereunder or thereunder or satisfaction in full of all the Obligations, ceases to be in full force and effect; or any Loan Party or any other Person contests in any manner the validity or enforceability of any provision of any Loan Document (excluding any Swap Contract); or any Loan Party denies that it has any or further liability or obligation under any Loan Document (excluding any Swap Contract), or purports to revoke, terminate or rescind any provision of any Loan Document (excluding any Swap Contract); , that this provision shall not apply to (i) any event described in this clause (n) arising with respect to any former Loan Party that ceased to be a Loan Party in a manner permitted hereunder before such event occurred and (ii) any Swap Contract (which shall be governed by hereof);
provided
Section 7.01(g)
then the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders or upon the occurrence of an event described in the proviso to , shall, take any or all of the actions described in .
Section 7.02
Section 7.02
Section 7.02 . If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
Remedies Upon Event of Default
(a) declare the Commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such Commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
(b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any
 
other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;
(c) require that the Borrower Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
(d) exercise on behalf of itself, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of any event described in or with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Borrower to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
Section 7.01(h)
Section 7.01(i)
Section 7.03 . After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received by the Administrative Agent on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Application of Funds
Section 7.02
Section 7.02
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article II
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest, Letter of Credit Fees and Commitment Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees and time charges for attorneys who may be employees of any Lender or the L/C Issuer) and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause Second payable to them;
Second
Article II
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees, Commitment Fees and interest on the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause Third payable to them;
Third
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause Fourth held by them;
Fourth
 
, to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit; and
Fifth
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied in the order set forth above.
Section 2.06(d)
Fifth
Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, and neither any Borrower nor any other Loan Party shall have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein or in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in ), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable Law, and (c) except as expressly set forth herein or in the other Loan Documents, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of
Section 9.02
provided
 
the Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in ) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or, except as provided in clause (v) below, conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Section 9.02
Article IV
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Credit Extension, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Credit Extension. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facility provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which
 
shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer under any of the Loan Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 9.03
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor or an affiliate thereof shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its
 
own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
The banks (or Affiliates thereof) identified in this Agreement as a "syndication agent," "documentation agent" or "book manager" or Arrangers shall not have any right, power, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement other than those applicable to all banks herein.
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws or any other judicial proceeding relative to any Loan Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise.
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent under , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.06
2.12
9.03
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.12
9.03
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or the L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
The Lenders and the L/C Issuer irrevocably authorize the Administrative Agent, at its option and in its discretion to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty if such Person ceases to be a Subsidiary as a result of a transaction permitted hereunder.
 
Upon request by the Administrative Agent at any time, the Required Lenders will confirm in writing the Administrative Agent's authority to release any Guarantor from its obligations under the Guaranty pursuant to this .
Article VIII
Section 9.01 .
Notices
(a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows:
General
(1) if to the Borrower, Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender or L/C Issuer, to the notice address set forth on ; and
Schedule 9.01
(2) if to any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
(b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at
provided
 
its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
(c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
(d) . Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender. Furthermore, each Public Lender agrees to cause at least one individual at or on behalf of such Public Lender to at all times have selected the "Private Side Information" or similar designation on the content declaration screen of the Platform in order to enable such Public Lender or its delegate, in accordance with such Public Lender's compliance procedures and applicable Law, including United States Federal and state securities Laws, to make reference to Borrower Materials that are not made available through the "Public Side Information" portion of the Platform and that may contain material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal or state securities laws.
Change of Address, Etc
(e) .The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Borrowing Requests and Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
 
incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Section 9.02 . (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrower or any other Loan Party therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments
(b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified, except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender or increase the Swing Line Commitment of any Swing Line Lender without the written consent of such Swing Line Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or L/C Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, or change the manner of computation of any financial ratio (including any change in any applicable defined term) used in determining the Applicable Rate that would result in a reduction of any interest rate on any Loan or Letter of Credit or any fee payable hereunder without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or L/C Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change or  in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender, (vi) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender, or (vii) release the Guarantors from the Guaranty without the written consent of each Lender; that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or
provided
Section 2.18(b)
(c)
Section 4.01(a)
provided further
 
duties of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement may be amended to extend the Maturity Date or to provide for Additional Credit Commitments in the manner contemplated by and and without any additional consents.
Sections 2.21
2.22
Section 9.03 . (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel (including the allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel), in connection with the syndication of the credit facility provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel (including, in the case of the Administrative Agent, allocated costs and expenses of in-house counsel) for the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
(b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and the L/C Issuer, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), and shall indemnify and hold harmless each Indemnitee from all fees and time charges and disbursements for attorneys who may be employees of any Indemnitee, incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower or any other Loan Party, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto,
Indemnitee
IN ALL CASES, WHETHER OR NOT CAUSED BY OR
 
; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
ARISING, IN WHOLE OR IN PART, OUT OF THE COMPARATIVE, CONTRIBUTORY OR SOLE NEGLIGENCE OF THE INDEMNITEE
provided
(c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Swing Line Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
(f) The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Section 9.04 . (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the L/C Issuer that issues any Letter of Credit), except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this , or (ii) by way
Successors and Assigns
Section 9.04
 
of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this . Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the L/C Issuer that issues any Letter of Credit) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Section 9.04
(b) Any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that (i) each of the Borrower (except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender), the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consents, (iii) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, except that this clause (iii) shall not apply to rights in respect of outstanding Competitive Advances, (iv) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, (v) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire in which the assignee designates one or more Credit Contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower and its Related Parties or its securities) will be made available and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including Federal and state securities laws and (vi) no such assignment shall be made to any Person that, through its lending offices, is not capable of lending the applicable Alternative Currencies to the relevant Borrowers without the imposition of any additional Indemnified Taxes; and that any consent of the Borrower otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default under has occurred and is continuing. Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder, to the extent not already a party hereto, shall become a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have (in addition to any such rights and obligations theretofore held by it) the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , and ). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (e) of this Section.
provided
provided
further
Article VII
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
9.03
 
(c) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and L/C Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, the L/C Issuer and any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
(d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(e) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Swing Line Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans and L/C Disbursements owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant, if notice of such Participant is given to the Borrower, also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
Section 9.02(b)
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
Section 9.08
Section 2.18(c)
(f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.15 or 2.17 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender
 
if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Section 2.17
Section 2.17(e)
(g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
(h) The words "execution," "signed," "signature," and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable Law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state Laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Section 9.05 . All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any L/C Disbursement or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of , , and and shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans and L/C Disbursements, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival
Sections 2.15
2.16
2.17
9.03
Article VIII
Section 9.06 . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement, any notes issued pursuant to it and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
 
thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Section 9.07 . Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
Section 9.08 . (a) If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender and the L/C Issuer under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender and the L/C Issuer may have.
Right of Setoff; Payments Set Aside
(b) To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, plus interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the applicable Overnight Rate from time to time in effect, in the applicable currency of such recovery or payment. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 9.09 . (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process
(b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York
 
sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against the Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) The Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in . Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
Section 9.01
Section 9.10 . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
Section 9.11 . Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings
Section 9.12 . (a) Each of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (i) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (ii) to the extent requested by
Confidentiality
 
any regulatory authority, (iii) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process (in which event, the party receiving such subpoena or legal process will, if permitted, as promptly as practicable give notice thereof to the Borrower and use reasonable efforts, at the expense of the Borrower, to cooperate with the Borrower in seeking a protective order), (iv) to any other party to this Agreement, (v) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (vi) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section and naming the Borrower as a third party beneficiary (in the absence of a provision naming the Borrower as a third party beneficiary, the applicable Lender hereby agrees to use its reasonable efforts, at the expense of the Borrower, upon the request of the Borrower to enforce such agreement), to (A) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (B) any counterparty to, or any prospective counterparty to (or such counterparty or prospective counterparty's advisors), any swap, securitization or derivative transaction referenced to credit or other risks arising under this Agreement, (vii) with the consent of the Borrower or (viii) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (B) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower not known by it to be bound by obligations of confidentiality. For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower; that, in the case of information received from the Borrower after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
(b) EACH LENDER ACKNOWLEDGES THAT INFORMATION AS DEFINED IN FURNISHED TO IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY INCLUDE MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION CONCERNING THE BORROWER AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR THEIR RESPECTIVE SECURITIES, AND CONFIRMS THAT IT HAS DEVELOPED COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES REGARDING THE USE OF MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION AND THAT IT WILL HANDLE SUCH MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THOSE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS. ALL INFORMATION, INCLUDING REQUESTS FOR WAIVERS AND AMENDMENTS, FURNISHED BY THE BORROWER OR THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT PURSUANT TO, OR IN THE COURSE OF ADMINISTERING, THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE SYNDICATE-LEVEL INFORMATION, WHICH MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT THE BORROWER AND ITS RELATED PARTIES OR ITS RESPECTIVE SECURITIES. ACCORDINGLY, EACH LENDER REPRESENTS TO THE BORROWER AND THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT THAT IT HAS IDENTIFIED IN ITS ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE A CREDIT CONTACT WHO MAY RECEIVE INFORMATION THAT MAY CONTAIN MATERIAL NON-PUBLIC INFORMATION IN
SECTION 9.12(a)
 
ACCORDANCE WITH ITS COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES AND APPLICABLE LAW, INCLUDING FEDERAL AND STATE SECURITIES LAWS.
Section 9.13 . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate.
Interest Rate Limitation
Charges
Maximum Rate
Section 9.14 . (a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
Judgment Currency
(b) The obligations of the Borrower in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the "") shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, the Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss. The obligations of the Borrower contained in this shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
Applicable Creditor
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
Section 9.14
Section 9.15 Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
USA Patriot Act.
Act
Section 9.16 . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document), the Borrower and each other Loan Party acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower, each other Loan Party and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) each of the Borrower and the other Loan Parties has consulted
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower and each other Loan Party is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents; (ii) (A) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers each is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor either Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower, the other Loan Parties and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor either Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower, any other Loan Party or any of their respective Affiliates. To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the Borrower and the other Loan Parties hereby waives and releases any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and either Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty in connection with any aspect of any transaction contemplated hereby.
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Release on October 1, 2007
(NYSE: NCR) today announced that it has completed the previously announced spin off of its Teradata Data Warehousing business through the distribution of a tax-free stock dividend to its stockholders. NCR distributed one share of common stock of Teradata for each share of NCR common stock to NCR stockholders of record as of the close of business on Sept. 14, 2007.
DAYTON, Ohio 
NCR Corporation
As a result of that distribution, NCR no longer owns shares of Teradata, and Teradata is an independent company. Beginning Oct. 1, 2007, Teradata common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) and trades under the symbol "TDC."
"I am extremely grateful for the tremendous efforts all of our employees have made over the past nine months to realize this momentous event," said Bill Nuti, chairman, chief executive officer and president of NCR. "As Teradata moves forward as an independent company, we wish the talented Teradata team all the best as they continue to build on their position as a global leader in the enterprise data warehousing market.
"This is a very exciting time for NCR as we guide businesses through the evolving world of customer interactions  where point-of-service kiosks, Internet and mobile devices are rapidly becoming channels of choice for consumers," Nuti added. "NCR will leverage our expertise in the emerging self-service market and our market-leading technologies, including automated teller machines, retail assisted point-of-sale and self-checkout systems, automated bill payment systems and airline, hotel and hospital self-check-in/out kiosks, to enable businesses to better serve their customers how, when and where they choose."
About NCR Corporation
NCR Corporation (NYSE: NCR) is a global technology company leading the way businesses interact with customers. NCR's assisted- and self-service solutions and comprehensive support services address the needs of retail, financial, travel, healthcare, hospitality, gaming and public sector organizations in more than 100 countries. NCR () is headquartered in Dayton, Ohio.
www.ncr.com
Teradata is a registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
NCR is a trademark of NCR Corporation in the United States and other countries.
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause NCR's actual results to differ materially. In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties include those relating to: the separation of Teradata and NCR's other businesses, including the impact on NCR of operating without the Teradata business; the uncertain economic climate and its impact on the markets in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers and other general economic and business conditions; the timely development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services (such as self-service technologies and enterprise data warehousing), including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services; shifts in market demands, continued competitive factors and pricing pressures and their impact on our ability to improve gross margins and profitability, especially in our more mature offerings; the effect of currency translation; short product cycles, rapidly changing technologies and maintaining competitive leadership position with respect to our solution offerings; tax rates; ability to execute our business and reengineering plans; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees, especially in light of continued cost-control measures being taken by the company; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors detailed from time to time in the company's U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reports and the company's annual reports to stockholders. The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


