FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20070919172332.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On August 28, 2007, NCR Corporation ("NCR") announced that a record date of September 14, 2007 and a distribution date of September 30, 2007 had been set for the spin-off of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata"), its wholly-owned subsidiary. To complete the spin-off, during a "blackout period" that will begin at 4:00 p.m., Eastern time, on Friday, September 28, 2007 and is expected to end on Friday, October 5, 2007, participants in Teradata's 401(k) Savings Plan will be unable to direct or diversify investments in, or obtain a distribution from, the Teradata Unitized Stock Fund in the Teradata 401(k) Savings Plan. A notice to directors and executive officers of Teradata of a general trading suspension during the same period, dated September 19, 2007, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference.
 
Exhibits:
The following exhibit is attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
In connection with the spin off of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata"), there will be a period of time when Teradata 401(k) Savings Plan participants will be unable to direct or diversify their investments in, or obtain a distribution from, or take loans of money invested in, the Teradata Unitized Stock Fund in the Teradata Savings Plan (the "Plan"). This period is required in order to ensure that Plan balances are processed and transferred accurately from the NCR Savings Plan to the Teradata Plan at Fidelity Investments. This period will begin at 4:00 P.M., Eastern Time, on Friday, September 28, 2007, and is expected to end on Friday, October 5, 2007.
This period during which Plan participants will be unable to exercise these rights will qualify as a "blackout period" under the Securities and Exchange Commission's Regulation BTR. Regulation BTR requires us to prohibit during this blackout period Teradata's directors and executive officers from buying, selling, trading or otherwise transferring Teradata common stock (including options and other derivatives based on company stock) acquired in connection with their service as a director or executive officer. Regulation BTR also requires that we send this notice to you. Covered transactions are not limited to those involving your direct ownership, but include any transaction in which you have a pecuniary interest.
Please note that, as previously communicated, all trading by Teradata's directors and executive officers is already prohibited under Teradata's Insider Trading Policy during the quarterly insider trading blackout period which is expected to lift on November 1, 2007. Regulation BTR, however, imposes additional penalties, such as criminal penalties and a requirement to disgorge all profits, on trades that occur during a Regulation BTR blackout period.
We will notify you of any changes that affect the dates of the BTR blackout period. If you have any questions concerning this notice or whether certain transactions are subject to this prohibition, please contact Molly Treese at (937) 445-2969.


