FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20071130160721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
(e) At its meeting on November 26, 2007, the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee") of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata") approved the forms of stock option agreement, restricted stock unit agreement and performance-based restricted stock unit agreement to be used in connection with awards made under the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "SIP") during 2008. These agreements are expected to be used in connection with the applicable form of equity awarded under the SIP to executive officers. Copies of the forms of the 2008 stock option agreement, 2008 restricted stock unit agreement, and the 2008 performance-based restricted stock unit agreement are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, and 10.3, respectively, and hereby incorporated by reference in this Item 5.02.
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
You have been granted an option (the "Option") under the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to purchase from Teradata a number of shares of common stock of Teradata ("Shares") at the price per Share as described on the stock option information page on the website of Teradata's third party Plan administrator, subject to the terms and conditions of this 2008 Stock Option Agreement (this "Agreement") and the Plan.
1. Your right to exercise this Option will expire on the tenth (10
th
) anniversary (the "Expiration Date") of the date of grant of this Option (the "Grant Date"), unless sooner terminated due to the termination of your employment as described below. If the Expiration Date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, it will be deemed to occur on the next following business day.
2. This Option will vest, and the vested shares ("Option Shares") may be exercised, in equal annual installments (subject to mathematical rounding performed by Teradata's third party Plan administrator) over the four year period commencing on the Grant Date, such that all of the shares represented by this Option shall be vested on the fourth anniversary of the Grant Date. This vesting schedule is contingent upon your continuous employment with Teradata or any of its affiliate companies (collectively referred to in this Agreement as "Teradata") as of and until each of the vesting dates. In the event your employment with Teradata terminates prior to the fourth (4
th
) anniversary of the Grant Date, except as otherwise provided below, this Option will terminate with respect to the then unvested portions.
3. This Option will vest in full if you (a) die while actively employed by Teradata, or (b) cease to be actively employed by Teradata as a result of a disability for which you qualify for benefits from the Teradata Long-Term Disability Plan or another long-term disability plan sponsored by Teradata ("Disability"). In such cases, if you, on the date of death or Disability, have not yet attained the age of 55, this Option may be exercised until the later of the one (1) year anniversary of the date of death or Disability or the Expiration Date. If death or Disability occurs on or after your attainment of age 55, this Option may be exercised until the later of the third (3
rd
) anniversary of the date of death or Disability or the Expiration Date.
4. If you voluntarily terminate employment with Teradata due to Retirement (as defined in this Section 4), the unvested portion of this Option will terminate and be forfeited, and the vested portion may be exercised until the earlier of (a) the third (3
rd
) anniversary of your Retirement, or (b) the Expiration Date. For purposes of this Agreement, "Retirement" means termination by you of employment at or after age 55 other than, if applicable to you, for Good Reason (as described below) following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan).
5. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event a Change in Control occurs and this Option award is not assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, the Option shall vest immediately prior to the Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control wherein this Option award is assumed, if a Termination of Employment (as defined in the Plan) by the Company other than for Cause or Disability (as such terms are defined in the Plan) occurs during the twenty-four (24) months following the Change in Control, this Option shall vest in full immediately upon your Termination of Employment, and the Option shall remain exercisable until the later of (a) the earlier of the one (1) year anniversary of your Termination of Employment or the Expiration Date; or (b) the applicable date determined under Sections 3 and 4 above. If you are a participant in the Teradata Change in Control Severance Plan, a Teradata Severance Policy or a similar arrangement that defines "Good Reason" in the context of a resignation following a Change in Control and you terminate your
employment for Good Reason as so defined within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, this Option shall vest immediately upon your Termination of Employment, and the Option Shares shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (a) the Expiration Date or (b) the first anniversary of your Termination of Employment.
6. If your Teradata employment is involuntarily terminated for Cause (as defined in the Plan) at any time, this Option will automatically terminate and all unexercised vested and unvested Option Shares will be forfeited and will not be exercisable as of the date of such termination.
7. If you terminate your employment with Teradata for any other reason, including but not limited to reduction-in-force, this Option will automatically terminate, any unvested Option Shares will be forfeited and the vested portion of this Option may be exercised no later than the earlier of (a) the 59
th
day after the date of termination of your employment, or (b) the Expiration Date.
8. In the event that you die after your termination of employment by Teradata, but while this Option remains exercisable, this Option may be exercised, by your beneficiary or heir, until the one (1) year anniversary of the date of your death, regardless of the Expiration Date.
9. By accepting this award, except to the extent that disclosure is required by applicable law or regulation, you agree to keep this Agreement confidential and not to disclose its contents to anyone except your attorney, your immediate family, or your financial consultant provided such persons agree in advance to keep such information confidential and not to disclose it to others. The Option will be forfeited if you violate the terms of this Section 9.
10. This Option will be cancelled if the Committee determines that you engaged in misconduct in connection with your employment with Teradata.
11. This Option shall be exercised in accordance with procedures established by the administrator of Teradata's stock option program, including broker-assisted cashless exercises. In countries where deemed mandatory, upon exercise, the purchase price will be paid by simultaneous sale of the Option Shares exercised, in such a manner that Teradata is not subject to taxation upon grant of the option award. Any taxes required by law to be withheld or paid with respect to exercise of this Option shall be deducted from the proceeds of the Option exercise. If Teradata or the administrator of the stock option program is unable to withhold required taxes from the proceeds of the Option exercise, you or your legal representative or beneficiary will be required to pay such amounts, and Teradata may take any action necessary to satisfy such obligation, including but not limited to withholding cash from compensation otherwise due to you or your beneficiary, or withholding from the Option Shares exercised such numbers of Option Shares as it, in its sole discretion, shall determine to be required to satisfy such withholding requirements.
12. Within a reasonable period after any vested portion of this Option is exercised, Teradata will instruct its Transfer Agent and/or third party Plan administrator to credit you or your successor with the number of Option Shares you exercised. Neither you nor your legal representative shall be, or have any of the rights and privileges of, a stockholder of Teradata in respect of any Shares purchasable upon the exercise of this Option, in whole or in part, unless and until Teradata credits you with, or causes a credit to you of, such Option Shares.
13. This Option is not transferable by you other than by beneficiary designation, will or the laws of descent and distribution, and during your lifetime this Option may be exercised only by you or your guardian or legal representative.
14. You may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive all or part of this Option in case of your death, and you may change or revoke such designation at any time. In the event of your death, any portion of this Option that is subject to such a designation will be distributed to such beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance with this Agreement. Any other portion of this Option not designated by you shall be
distributable to your estate. If there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder, the Option Shares in question may be purchased by and distributed to your estate, in which event Teradata shall have no further liability to anyone with respect to such Option Shares.
15. In exchange for this Option, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a period of twelve (12) months after termination of your Teradata employment (or if applicable law mandates a maximum time that is shorter than twelve months, then for a period of time equal to that shorter maximum period), regardless of the reason for termination, you will not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata, (1) render services directly or indirectly to, or become employed by, any Competing Organization (as defined in this Section 15) to the extent such services or employment involves the development, manufacture, marketing, advertising, sale or servicing of any product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to, or competes with, a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers and upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (2) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata to terminate his or her employment with Teradata or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata; or (3) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the preceding two (2) years while employed by Teradata, including customers of Teradata. If you breach the terms of this Section 15, you agree that in addition to any liability you may have for damages arising from such breach, this Option will be immediately cancelled, all vested and unexercised Option Shares shall be forfeited, and you will pay to Teradata the difference between the exercise price and the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of any Option Shares received in connection with the exercise of this Option on or after the date which is twelve (12) months prior to the date of the breach.
As used in this Section 15, "Competing Organization" means an organization identified as a Competing Organization by the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata at the beginning of the year in which your employment with Teradata terminates, and any other person or organization which is engaged in or about to become engaged in research on or development, production, marketing, leasing, selling or servicing of a product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to or competes with a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers. The list of Competing Organizations identified by the Chief Executive Officer is maintained by the Teradata Law Department.
16. By accepting this Option, you agree that, where permitted by local law, any controversy or claim arising out of or related to your employment relationship with Teradata shall be resolved by arbitration. If you are employed in the United States, the arbitration shall be pursuant to the Teradata dispute resolution policy and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association and shall be held in the city of the location of the headquarters of Teradata. If you are employed outside the United States, where permitted by local law, the arbitration shall be conducted in the regional headquarters city of the business unit in which you work. The arbitration shall be held before a single arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable in employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. For arbitrations held in the United States, issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state in which the headquarters of Teradata is located. Each party shall bear its own attorney's fees associated with the arbitration and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association for an arbitration held in the United States, or similar applicable rules for an arbitration held outside the United States.
Notwithstanding the preceding subparagraph, you acknowledge that if you breach Section 15, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and will not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of Section 15 Teradata may, in addition to any other remedies available to it,
bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for equitable relief to preserve the status quo pending appointment of an arbitrator and completion of an arbitration. You stipulate to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state and federal courts located in the location from which Teradata's Option program is administered for any such proceedings.
17. The provisions of this Agreement are severable. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable or invalid by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction (including an arbitration tribunal), it shall be severed and shall not affect any other part of this Agreement, which will be enforced as permitted by law.
18. The terms of this Option as evidenced by this Agreement may be amended by the Teradata Board of Directors or the Committee at any time.
19. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail, except that with respect to matters involving choice of law the terms and conditions of Section 16 of this Agreement shall prevail.

Exhibit 10.2
You have been awarded a number of restricted stock units (the "Stock Units") under the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), as described on the restricted stock unit information page on the website of Teradata's third party Plan administrator, subject to the terms and conditions of this 2008 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this "Agreement") and the Plan.
1. The Stock Units will become non-forfeitable ("Vested") on the vesting date described on the Information Page ("Vesting Date"), provided that you are continuously employed by Teradata or any of its affiliate companies (referred to collectively herein as "Teradata") until the Vesting Date.
2. If your employment with Teradata terminates prior to your Vesting Date due to (i) your death; or (ii) cessation of active employment by Teradata as a result of a disability for which you qualify for benefits under the Teradata Long-Term Disability Plan or another long-term disability plan sponsored by Teradata ("Disability"); then, upon such termination of employment, your Stock Units will become fully Vested. If your employment with Teradata terminates prior to your Vesting Date due to your (a) Retirement (defined as termination by you of your employment with Teradata at or after age 55 other than, if applicable to you, for Good Reason (as described below) following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan); or (b) reduction-in-force; then, upon such termination of employment, a pro rata portion of the Stock Units will become fully Vested. The pro rata portion of the Stock Units that will become fully Vested will be determined by multiplying the total number of the Stock Units awarded pursuant to this Agreement by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full and partial months of employment that you completed after the date of grant of this award (the "Grant Date"), and the denominator of which is the total number of months during the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending on your Vesting Date.
Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event a Change in Control occurs and this restricted stock unit award is not assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, the Stock Units shall become fully Vested immediately prior to the Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control wherein this restricted stock unit award is assumed, if a Termination of Employment (as defined in the Plan) by the Company other than for Cause or Disability (as such terms are defined in the Plan) occurs during the twenty-four (24) months following the Change in Control, the Stock Units shall become fully Vested immediately upon your Termination of Employment. If you are a participant in the Teradata Change in Control Severance Plan, a Teradata Severance Policy or a similar arrangement that defines "Good Reason" in the context of a resignation following a Change in Control and you terminate your employment for Good Reason as so defined within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, the Stock Units shall become fully Vested immediately upon your Termination of Employment.
3. Except as may be otherwise provided in this Section 3, when Vested, the Stock Units will be paid to you within 30 days after the Vesting Date in shares of Teradata common stock (such that one Stock Unit equals one share of Teradata common stock) or, in Teradata's sole discretion, in an amount of cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such number of shares of Teradata common stock as of the Vesting Date (or such earlier date upon which the Stock Units have become Vested pursuant to Section 2 of this Agreement), or a combination thereof.
To the extent that the Stock Units become Vested pursuant to Section 2 of this Agreement and your right to receive payment of Vested Stock Units constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then payment of such Stock Units shall be subject to the following rules: (i) the Stock Units will be paid to you within 30 days after the earlier of (a) your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, or (b) the Vesting Date; (ii) notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Stock Units become payable as a result of your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (other than as a result of death), and you are a "specified employee" as determined under Teradata's policy for determining specified employees on the date of separation from service, the Stock Units shall be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code; and (iii) Teradata may, in its sole discretion and to the extent permitted by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(B), terminate this Agreement and pay all outstanding Stock Units to you within 30 days before or 12 months after a "change in the ownership," a "change in the effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of Teradata within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
4. By accepting this award, unless disclosure is required by applicable law or regulation, you agree to keep this Agreement confidential and not to disclose its contents to anyone except your attorney, your immediate family, or your financial consultant, provided such persons agree in advance to keep such information confidential and not disclose it to others. The Stock Units will be forfeited if you violate the terms and conditions of this Section 4.
5. At all times before your Vesting Date, the Stock Units may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated, except by beneficiary designation, will or by the laws of descent and distribution upon your death. As soon as practicable after your Vesting Date, if Stock Units are to be paid in the form of shares of Teradata common stock, Teradata will instruct its Transfer Agent and/or its third party Plan administrator to record on your account the number of shares of Teradata common stock underlying the number of Stock Units that you opted to be paid to you in shares of Teradata common stock and such shares will be freely transferable.
6. Any cash dividends declared before your Vesting Date on the shares underlying the Stock Units shall not be paid currently, but shall be converted into additional Stock Units. Any Stock Units resulting from such conversion (the "Dividend Units") will be considered Stock Units for purposes of this Agreement and will be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth herein. As of each date that Teradata would otherwise pay the declared dividend on the shares underlying the Stock Units (the "Dividend Payment Date") in the absence of the reinvestment requirements of this Section 6, the number of Dividend Units will be determined by dividing the amount of dividends otherwise attributable to the Stock Units but not paid on the Dividend Payment Date by the Fair Market Value of Teradata's common stock on the Dividend Payment Date.
7. Teradata has the right to deduct or cause to be deducted from, or collect or cause to be collected, with respect to the taxation of any Stock Units, any federal, state or local taxes required by the laws of the United States or any other country to be withheld or paid with respect to the Stock Units, and you or your legal representative or beneficiary will be required to pay any such amounts. By accepting this award, you consent and direct that, if you are paid through Teradata's United States payroll system at the time the Stock Units vest, Teradata's stock plan administrator may withhold or sell the number of Stock Units from your award as Teradata, in its sole discretion, deems necessary to satisfy such withholding requirements. If you are paid through a non-United States Teradata payroll system, you agree that Teradata may satisfy any withholding obligations by withholding cash from your compensation otherwise due to you or by any other action as it may deem necessary to satisfy any withholding obligation.
8. The Stock Units will be forfeited if the Committee determines that you engaged in misconduct in connection with your employment with Teradata.
9. In exchange for the Stock Units, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a period of twelve (12) months after the termination of employment (or if applicable law mandates a maximum time that is shorter than twelve months, then for a period of time equal to that shorter maximum period), regardless of the reason for termination, you will not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata, (1) render services directly or indirectly to, or become employed by, any Competing Organization (as defined in this Section 9 below) to the extent such services or employment involves the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, advertising or servicing of any product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to, or competes with, a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers and upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (2) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata to terminate his or her employment with or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata; or (3) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the preceding two (2) years while employed by Teradata, including customers of Teradata. If you breach the terms of this Section 9, you agree that in addition to any liability you may have for damages arising from such breach, any unvested Stock Units will be immediately forfeited, and you agree to pay to Teradata the Fair Market Value of any Stock Units that Vested or cash paid to you in lieu of such Stock Units during the twelve (12) months prior to the date of your termination of employment. Such Fair Market Value shall be determined as of your Vesting Date.
As used in this Section 9, "Competing Organization" means an organization identified as a Competing Organization by the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata for the year in which your employment with Teradata terminates, and any other person or organization which is engaged in or about to become engaged in research on or development, production, marketing, leasing, selling or servicing of a product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to or competes with a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers. The list of Competing Organizations identified by the Chief Executive Officer is maintained by the Teradata Law Department.
10. By accepting this award, you agree that, where permitted by local law, any controversy or claim arising out of or related to your employment relationship with Teradata shall be resolved by first exhausting any Teradata internal dispute resolution process and policy, and then by arbitration pursuant to such policy. If you are employed in the United States, the arbitration shall be pursuant to the Teradata dispute resolution policy and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association and shall be held in the city of the location of the headquarters of Teradata. If you are employed outside the United States, where permitted by local law, the arbitration shall be conducted in the regional headquarters city of the business unit in which you work. The arbitration shall be held before a single arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable in employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. For arbitrations held in the United States, issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state in which the headquarters of Teradata is located. Each party shall bear its own attorney's fees associated with the arbitration, and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association for an arbitration held in the United States, or similar applicable rules for an arbitration held outside the United States.
Notwithstanding the preceding subparagraph, you acknowledge that if you breach Section 9, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and will not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of Section 9 Teradata may, in addition to any other remedies
available to it, bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for equitable relief to preserve the status quo pending appointment of an arbitrator and completion of an arbitration. You stipulate to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state and federal courts located in the location from which Teradata's Option program is administered, for any such proceedings.
11. You may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive all or part of any Stock Units to be distributed in case of your death, and you may change or revoke such designation at any time. In the event of your death, any Stock Units distributable hereunder that are subject to such a designation will be distributed to such beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance with this Agreement. Any other Stock Units not designated by you will be distributable to your estate. If there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder, the Stock Units in question may be transferred to your estate, in which event Teradata will have no further liability to anyone with respect to such Stock Units.
12. The provisions of this Agreement are severable. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable or invalid by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction (including an arbitration tribunal), it shall be severed and shall not affect any other part of this Agreement, which will be enforced as permitted by law.
13. The terms of this award of Stock Units as evidenced by this Agreement may be amended by the Teradata Board of Directors or the Committee.
14. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail, except that with respect to matters involving choice of law the terms and conditions of Section 10 of this Agreement shall prevail.

Exhibit 10.3
You have been awarded a number of restricted stock units (the "Stock Units") under the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") as described on the restricted stock unit information page on the website of Teradata's third party Plan administrator, subject to the terms and conditions of this 2008 Performance Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (this "Agreement") and the Plan.
1. All, a portion, a multiple, or none of the Stock Units will become nonforfeitable ("Vested") on the date (your "Vesting Date") that the Compensation & Human Resource Committee of the Teradata Board of Directors (the "Committee") determines that the performance goals set forth on (the "Performance Goals") have been achieved during the period from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010 (the "Performance Period") at the level described in Section 2 below, that (i) you are continuously employed by Teradata or any of its affiliate companies (referred to collectively herein as "Teradata") until your Vesting Date, and (ii) the applicable performance measures described in Section 2 below are met. In no event shall the Vesting Date be later than December 1 of the calendar year following the end of the Performance Period.
Exhibit A
provided
2. Subject to your continued employment through the Vesting Date, in the event that Teradata achieves the Performance Goal during the Performance Period, you will become Vested on your Vesting Date in a designated percentage of the Stock Units awarded to you under this Agreement, as set forth on Exhibit A. The Performance Goal will be determined by the Committee, and will be communicated in your award letter.
3. If your employment with Teradata terminates prior to your Vesting Date due to (i) your death; (ii) cessation of active employment by Teradata as a result of a disability for which you qualify for benefits under the Teradata Long-Term Disability Plan or another long-term disability plan sponsored by Teradata ("Disability"); (iii) Retirement (defined as termination by you of your employment with Teradata at or after age 55 other than, if applicable to you, for Good Reason (as described below) following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan); or (iv) reduction-in-force; then, on your Vesting Date, and based upon the Committee's determination of the Performance Goal, a pro rata portion of the Stock Units will become Vested. The pro rata portion will be determined by calculating the total number of shares or cash you would have received (through vesting of Stock Units) if your Teradata employment had not terminated prior to your Vesting Date, and multiplying that number by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full and partial months of employment you completed after the date of grant of this award, and the denominator of which is the number of months in the Performance Period. If your employment terminates prior to your Vesting Date for any reason other than as otherwise described in this Section 3, the Stock Units will automatically terminate and be forfeited and no shares or cash will be issued or paid (as the case may be).
Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary:
(i) in the event a Change in Control occurs on or prior to the first anniversary of grant and this restricted stock unit award is not assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, the Stock Units shall vest immediately prior to the Change in Control (without regard to performance or pro-ration) at the "Target" level,
(ii) in the event a Change in Control occurs after the first anniversary of grant and this restricted stock unit award is not assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, the Stock Units shall vest immediately prior to the Change in Control (without regard to performance after the Change in Control or pro-ration) based on actual performance through
the end of the calendar year immediately preceding the date on which the Change in Control occurs,
(iii) in the event of a Change in Control on or prior to the first anniversary of grant wherein this restricted stock unit award is assumed, the Stock Units shall vest at the end of the Performance Period (without regard to performance or pro-ration) at the "Target" level, subject to your continued employment through the end of the Performance Period, and
(iv) in the event of a Change in Control after the first anniversary of grant wherein this restricted stock unit award is assumed, the Stock Units shall vest at the end of the Performance Period (without regard to performance after the Change in Control or pro-ration) based on actual performance through the end of the calendar year immediately preceding the date on which the Change in Control occurs, subject to your continued employment through the end of the Performance Period.
Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (iii) and (iv) to the contrary, if, during the 24 months following the Change in Control, you incur a Termination of Employment (as defined in the Plan) by the Company other than for Cause or Disability (as such terms are defined in the Plan) or, if you are a participant in the Teradata Change in Control Severance Plan, a Teradata Severance Policy or a similar arrangement that defines "Good Reason" in the context of a resignation following a Change in Control, to the extent not then-vested, the Stock Units shall vest immediately upon your Termination of Employment at the level specified in clause (iii) or (iv) as applicable.
4. Except as may be otherwise provided in this Section 4, when Vested, the Stock Units will be paid to you within 30 days after the Vesting Date in shares of Teradata common stock (such that one Stock Unit equals one share of Teradata common stock) or, in Teradata's sole discretion, in an amount of cash equal to the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of such number of shares of Teradata common stock as of the Vesting Date (or such earlier date upon which the Stock Units have become Vested pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement), or a combination thereof.
To the extent that the Stock Units become Vested pursuant to Section 3 of this Agreement and your right to receive payment of Vested Stock Units constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then payment of such Stock Units shall be subject to the following rules: (i) the Vested Stock Units will be paid to you within 30 days after the earlier of (a) your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, or (b) the Vesting Date; (ii) notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Stock Units become payable as a result of your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (other than as a result of death), and you are a "specified employee" as determined under Teradata's policy for determining specified employees on the date of separation from service, the Stock Units shall be paid no earlier than the first business day after the date that is six months following your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code; and (iii) Teradata may, in its sole discretion and to the extent permitted by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(B), terminate this Agreement and pay all outstanding Stock Units to you within 30 days before or 12 months after a "change in the ownership," a "change in the effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of Teradata within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
5. By accepting this award, unless disclosure is required by applicable law or regulation, you agree to keep this Agreement confidential and not to disclose its contents to anyone except your attorney, your immediate family, or your financial consultant, provided such persons agree in advance to keep such information confidential and not disclose it to others. The Stock Units will be forfeited if you violate the terms and conditions of this Section 5.
6. At all times before your Vesting Date, the Stock Units may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated, except by beneficiary designation, will or by the laws of descent and distribution upon your death. As soon as practicable after your Vesting Date, if Stock Units are to be paid in the form of shares of Teradata common stock, Teradata will instruct its Transfer Agent and/or third party Plan administrator to record on your account the number of such shares underlying the number of Stock Units, and such shares will be freely transferable.
7. Any cash dividends declared before your Vesting Date on the shares underlying the Stock Units shall not be paid currently, but shall be converted into additional Stock Units. Any Stock Units resulting from such conversion (the "Dividend Units") will be considered Stock Units for purposes of this Agreement and will be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth herein. As of each date that Teradata would otherwise pay the declared dividend on the shares underlying the Stock Units (the "Dividend Payment Date") in the absence of the reinvestment requirements of this Section 7, the number of Dividend Units will be determined by dividing the amount of dividends otherwise attributable to the Stock Units but not paid on the Dividend Payment Date by the Fair Market Value of Teradata's common stock on the Dividend Payment Date.
8. Teradata has the right to deduct or cause to be deducted from, or collect or cause to be collected, with respect to the taxation of any Stock Units, any federal, state or local taxes required by the laws of the United States or any other country to be withheld or paid with respect to the Stock Units, and you or your legal representative or beneficiary will be required to pay any such amounts. By accepting this award, you consent and direct that, if you are paid through Teradata's United States payroll system at the time the Stock Units vest, Teradata's stock plan administrator will withhold or sell the number of Stock Units from your award as Teradata, in its sole discretion, deems necessary to satisfy such withholding requirements. If you are paid through a non-United States Teradata payroll system, you agree that Teradata may satisfy any withholding obligations by withholding cash from your compensation otherwise due to you or by any other action as it may deem necessary to satisfy the withholding obligation.
9. In exchange for the Stock Units, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a period of twelve (12) months after the termination of employment (or if applicable law mandates a maximum time that is shorter than twelve months, then for a period of time equal to that shorter maximum period), regardless of the reason for termination, you will not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata, (1) render services directly or indirectly to, or become employed by, any Competing Organization (as defined in this Section 9) to the extent such services or employment involves the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, advertising or servicing of any product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to, or competes with, a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers and upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (2) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata to terminate his or her employment with or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata; or (3) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the preceding two (2) years while employed by Teradata, including customers of Teradata. If you breach the terms of this Section 9, you agree that in addition to any liability you may have for damages arising from such breach, any unvested Stock Units will be immediately forfeited, and you will pay to Teradata the Fair Market Value of any Stock Units that Vested or cash paid to you in lieu of such Stock Units that were issued during the twelve (12) months prior to the date of termination of your employment. Such Fair Market Value shall be determined as of your Vesting Date. If you breach the terms of this Section 9 prior to the end of the Performance Period but after your employment terminates due to the circumstances described in the first paragraph of Section 3, your award will be forfeited and you will not receive a pro rata portion of the Stock Units.
As used in this Section 9, "Competing Organization" means an organization identified by the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata as a Competing Organization for the year in which your employment with Teradata terminates, and any other person or organization which is engaged in or about to become engaged in research on or development, production, marketing, leasing, selling or servicing of a product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to or competes with a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers. The list of Competing Organizations identified by the Chief Executive Officer is maintained by the Teradata Law Department.
10. By accepting the Stock Units, you agree that, where permitted by local law, any controversy or claim arising out of or related to your employment relationship with Teradata shall be resolved by arbitration. If you are employed in the United States, the arbitration shall be pursuant to the Teradata dispute resolution policy and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association and shall be held in the city of the location of the headquarters of Teradata. If you are employed outside the United States, where permitted by local law, the arbitration shall be conducted in the regional headquarters city of the business unit in which you work. The arbitration shall be held before a single arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable in employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. For arbitrations held in the United States, issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state in which the headquarters of Teradata is located. Each party shall bear its own attorney's fees associated with the arbitration and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association for an arbitration held in the United States, or similar applicable rules for an arbitration held outside the United States. The Stock Units will be forfeited if the Committee determines that you engaged in misconduct in connection with your employment with Teradata.
Notwithstanding the preceding subparagraph, you acknowledge that if you breach Section 9, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and will not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of Section 9 Teradata may, in addition to any other remedies available to it, bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for equitable relief to preserve the status quo pending appointment of an arbitrator and completion of an arbitration. You stipulate to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state and federal courts located in the location from which Teradata's equity programs are administered, for any such proceedings.
11. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, you may at any time designate one or more beneficiaries to receive all or part of any Stock Units. In the event of your death, any Stock Units distributable hereunder that are subject to such a designation will be distributed to such beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance with this Agreement. Any other Stock Units not designated by you will be distributable to your estate. If there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder, the Stock Units in question may be transferred to your estate, in which event Teradata will have no further liability to anyone with respect to such Stock Units.
12. The provisions of this Agreement are severable. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable or invalid by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction (including an arbitration tribunal), it shall be severed and shall not affect any other part of this Agreement, which will be enforced as permitted by law.
13. The terms of this award of Stock Units as evidenced by this Agreement may be amended by the Teradata Board of Directors or the Committee.
14. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail, except that with respect to matters involving choice of law the terms and conditions of Section 10 of this Agreement shall prevail.
Pursuant to the Form of 2008 Performance Based Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the "Agreement"), the following sets for the Performance Goals to be achieved for the period from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010 (the "Performance Period").
The number of restricted stock units (the "Stock Units") that will become Vested on your Vesting Date will depend on Teradata's achievement of Revenue and Operating Income for the Performance Period.
For amounts of Revenue and Operating Income between the Threshold and Target levels or between the Target and Maximum levels, straight line interpolation, rounded up to the next whole share, will be used to determine the number of Stock Units that become Vested. The amount of Revenue and Operating Income at Threshold, Target and Maximum levels will be determined by the Committee.
"Revenue" is defined as the amount of "" as reported by Teradata Corporation during the Performance Period. "Operating Income" is defined as "" minus "" as reported by Teradata Corporation during the Perfromance Period.
Net Customer Revenue
Income Before Taxes
Operating Income/Expense


