FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20080508083745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is furnishing the following information as required under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
On May 8, 2008, the Company issued a press release setting forth its first quarter 2008 revenue and earnings per share amounts along with its forecast for 2008 revenue growth and earnings per share. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Release on May 8, 2008
 
 
 
 Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC), the world's largest company solely focused on data warehousing and enterprise analytics, today reported revenue of $375 million for the first quarter of 2008, a 2 percent increase from $367 million in the first quarter of 2007. Included in the year-over-year comparison was 4 percentage points of benefit from currency translation.
MIAMISBURG, Ohio
(
1
)
Gross margin in the first quarter was 51.7 percent versus 53.4 percent in the first quarter of 2007. Gross margin was lower in the first quarter of 2008 primarily due to lower product volume in the Americas region.
Teradata's first-quarter net income was $42 million, or $0.23 per diluted share, which compared to $43 million, or $0.24 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2007. As expected, Teradata's first quarter results included $11 million of incremental costs associated with Teradata now operating as an independent publicly-traded company.
"We continue to see overall global demand for enterprise data warehousing remain strong, as companies look to Teradata to achieve competitive advantage with our best-in-class data warehousing solutions. While we are disappointed with our start to the year, primarily due to lengthening sales cycles in the United States, the fundamentals of our business remain solid and we are maintaining our guidance for 2008," said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata. "Our services business grew 20% in the quarter and service
margins increased 1.3 points. Customer activity is strong entering the second quarter, especially internationally.
"We are investing for growth, both in our innovative technology and in our market coverage. We just introduced our comprehensive new platform family, which sets the standard in data warehousing and leverages the power of our industry-leading Teradata 12 database, and we are increasing our number of sales territories. Data will continue to grow exponentially in the years to come, both in volume and complexity, and Teradata is well positioned to help organizations address the challenge and gain competitive advantage."
Regional Operating Segment Results
(
2
)
Teradata reports its results in three regional operating segments.
Teradata generated $210 million of revenue in its Americas region in the first quarter of 2008, down 2 percent from $215 million in the first quarter of 2007. Currency translation provided 1 percentage point of benefit in the year-over-year revenue comparison.
Gross margin in the Americas region in the first quarter of 2008 was 54.3 percent, compared to 59.5 percent in the first quarter of 2007. Gross margin in the Americas declined primarily due to lower product volume and revenue mix as well as an unfavorable deal mix.
Revenue in Teradata's EMEA region in the first quarter of 2008 was $103 million, up 14 percent from $90 million generated in the first quarter of 2007. Currency translation benefited revenue growth in the EMEA region by 11 percentage points.
Gross margin in the EMEA region in the first quarter of 2008 was 50.5 percent, an increase from 44.4 percent in the first quarter of 2007. Gross margins in the EMEA region improved due to the benefit of currency translation, improved performance in professional services and higher product volume.
Teradata generated $62 million of revenue in its APJ region in the first quarter of 2008, the same as reported in the first quarter of 2007. The year-over-year revenue comparison in the APJ region was benefited by 9 percentage points from currency translation.
Gross margin in the APJ region in the first quarter of 2008 was 45.2 percent, the same as reported in the first quarter of 2007.
Company Operating Results
First quarter of 2008 operating income was $53 million, compared to $70 million in the first quarter of 2007. Lower product revenue in the Americas region, along with incremental costs associated with Teradata now operating as an independent, publicly-traded company, were the key drivers of the lower operating income in the quarter.
Other income in the first quarter of 2008 was $3 million, primarily from interest income earned on Teradata's cash balance.
The effective tax rate in the first quarter of 2008 results was 25 percent versus 39 percent in the first quarter of 2007. Teradata now expects its full-year tax rate for 2008 to be approximately 25 percent.
During the first quarter of 2008, Teradata generated $143 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $102 million in the same period in 2007. Capital expenditures of $20 million were comparable to $19 million in the first quarter of 2007. Teradata generated $123 million of free cash flow (cash from operations less capital expenditures and additions to capitalized software) in the first quarter of 2008, versus $83 million in the same period last year.
As of March 31, 2008, Teradata had $339 million in cash and cash equivalents, an increase of $69 million from December 31, 2007. Free cash flow generation more than offset the use of cash for share repurchases. During the quarter, the company repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares for $38 million.
Although Teradata has a $300 million credit facility in place, Teradata had no short- or long-term debt outstanding as of March 31, 2008.
Teradata continues to expect 2008 full-year revenue growth of approximately 5 to 8 percent and 2008 earnings per share to be $1.35 to $1.45.
 
A conference call is scheduled today at 10:00 a.m. (EDT) to discuss the company's first-quarter results, as well as its guidance for 2008. Access to the conference call, as well as a replay of the call, is available on Teradata's Web site at .
www.teradata.com/investor
Supplemental financial information regarding Teradata's operating results is also available on Teradata's Web site.
About Teradata Corporation
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world's largest company solely focused on raising intelligence through data warehousing and enterprise analytics. Teradata is in more than 60 countries and on the Web at .
www.teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 
 
 
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially.
In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the uncertain economic climate and its impact on the markets in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the impact of our separation from NCR Corporation and risks relating to our ability to operate effectively as a stand-alone, publicly traded company; changes in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations following our separation from NCR; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the data enterprise warehousing business, including the increased pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described from time to time in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the company's annual reports to stockholders The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Schedule A
 
 
Schedule B
 
Schedule C
 
Schedule D
 
 


