FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20081208172658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Effective as of December 2, 2008, options to purchase common stock of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata" or the "Company") were granted to the Company's executive officers. These options were granted in connection with the Company's annual long-term incentive equity program approved by the Compensation and Human Resource Committee (the "Committee") of the Teradata Board of Directors (the "Board"). Specifically, at its meeting on December 1, 2008, the Committee granted options to purchase Teradata common stock ("Options") to the Company's executive officers, excluding the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"). Subsequently, at a meeting of the Board on December 2, 2008, in consultation with the Committee, the independent members of the Board granted Options to the CEO. The Options were granted pursuant to the terms of the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended.
 
On and effective December 2, 2008, the Board approved the Second Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (the "Amended By-Laws"). Among the changes to the By-Laws, the Board:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This summary should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Amended By-Laws, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On and effective December 2, 2008, the Board also approved the Amended and Restated Teradata Corporation Board of Directors Corporate Governance Guidelines (the "Amended Guidelines"). Among the changes, the Board amended the Guidelines to set forth a process by which a stockholder may recommend a candidate for nomination by the Board, to set forth the Board's policy with respect to obtaining and considering offers of resignation from directors who are not re-elected to the Board in uncontested director elections by the majority stockholder vote required by the Company's By-Laws and to enact certain other changes to the provisions that appear in Items 3, 7-12, 14, 18-19, 21, 23, 25-26, 28-29, 32, 34-36 and 39 and Exhibit A of the Amended Guidelines. The foregoing summary should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to, the Amended Guidelines, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The Amended Guidelines are also available at http://www.teradata.com/t/page/172901/index.html.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 8, 2008
 

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1. . The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Registered Office
Section 2. . The Corporation may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Other Offices
Section 1. . Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meetings
Section 2. . The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. Any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting of stockholders.
Annual Meetings
Section 3. . Unless otherwise required by law or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended and restated from time to time (the ""), special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by either the (i) Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, or (ii) the Chief Executive Officer, and shall be called by the Chief Executive Officer at the request in writing made pursuant to a resolution of (a) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors or (b) a committee of the Board of Directors that has been duly designated by the Board of Directors and whose powers and authority include the power to call such meetings. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. The ability of the stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders is hereby specifically denied. At a special meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto).
Special Meetings
Certificate of Incorporation
Section 4. . Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed present in person and vote at such meeting. Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, written notice of any meeting shall be given either personally, by mail or by electronic transmission (if permitted under the circumstances by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL")) not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his address at it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. If notice is given by means of electronic transmission, such notice shall be deemed to be given at the times provided in the DGCL.
Notice
Section 5. . Any meeting of the stockholders may be adjourned from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof, and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of the adjourned meeting in accordance with the requirements of Section 4 hereof shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of and to vote at the meeting.
Adjournments
Section 6. . Unless otherwise required by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the Corporation's capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders. Where a separate vote by a class or classes or series is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or classes or series present in person or by proxy shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, either the chairman of the meeting or the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in the manner provided in Section 5 hereof, until a quorum shall be present or represented. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum
Section 7. . Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any question brought before any meeting of the stockholders, other than the election of directors, shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on such question, voting as a single class. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder represented at a meeting of the stockholders shall be entitled to cast one (1) vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy as provided in Section 8 of this
Voting
 
Article II. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of the stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
Section 8. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the DGCL) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
Proxies
Section 9. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, and, as specified by the Certificate of Incorporation, the ability of the stockholders to consent in writing to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
No Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting
Section 10. . The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting: (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the Corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the list shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be examined by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
Section 11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of the stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of the stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; , , that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Record Date
provided
however
Section 12. . The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 10 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of the stockholders.
Stock Ledger
 
Section 13. . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall act as chairman of meetings of the stockholders. The Board of Directors may designate any other officer or director of the Corporation to act as chairman of any meeting in the absence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors may further provide for determining who shall act as chairman of any stockholders meeting in the absence of the Chairman and such designee. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of any meeting of the stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) the determination of when the polls shall open and close for any given matter to be voted on at the meeting; (iii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iv) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (v) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (vi) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting to another place, date and time.
Organization and Conduct of Meetings
Section 14. . In advance of any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors, by resolution, the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more other persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of the stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, inspectors may be officers, employees or agents of the Corporation. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of such inspector's ability. The inspector shall have the duties prescribed by law and shall take charge of the polls and, when the vote is completed, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken and of such other facts as may be required by applicable law.
Inspectors of Election
Section 15. . No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the Corporation's proxy materials with respect to such meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 15 and on the record date for the determination of
Nature of Business at Meetings of Stockholders
 
stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such annual meeting, (ii) who is entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (iii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 15. In addition to the other requirements set forth herein, a stockholder may not transact any business at an annual meeting unless (A) such stockholder, and any beneficial owner on whose behalf such business is proposed, acted in a manner consistent with the representation made in the Business Solicitation Representation, as defined herein and (B) such business is a proper matter for stockholder action under Delaware law. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing clause (c) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to propose business (other than business included in the Corporation's proxy materials pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (such act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the "Exchange Act")) at an annual meeting of stockholders.
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the one-year anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is convened more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, or if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever mailing or public disclosure occurs first. In no event shall an adjournment of an annual meeting, or a postponement of an annual meeting for which notice has been given, or the public disclosure thereof, commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. For purposes of this Section 15 and Section 16, (x) the term "public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the and (y) the Corporation's annual meeting in 2007 shall be deemed to have occurred on April 26, 2007.
provided
however
Exchange Act
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (i) as to each matter such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf such proposal is made (each, a "party") proposes to bring before the annual meeting a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and address of each such party, (iii) (A) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record by each such party (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or
 
otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by each such party, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which either party has a right to vote, directly or indirectly, any shares of any security of the Corporation, (D) any short interest in any security of the Corporation held by each such party (for purposes of this Section 15 a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially directly or indirectly by each such party that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which either party is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that each such party is directly or indirectly entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of each such party's immediate family sharing the same household (which information set forth in this clause (iii) shall be supplemented by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, as the case may be, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date); (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between each such party and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of each such party in such business, (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting and (vi) a representation (a "Business Solicitation Representation") whether or not either party will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to the holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to adopt such proposed business.
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 15. If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
Section 16. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right, if any, of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation (a) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 16 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting, (b) who is entitled to vote at such meeting and
Nomination of Directors
 
(c) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 16. In addition to the other requirements set forth herein, a stockholder may not present a nominee for election at an annual or special meeting unless such stockholder, and any beneficial owner on whose behalf such nomination is made, acted in a manner consistent with the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Representation, as defined herein. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing clause (ii) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations for director election at a meeting of stockholders (except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right, if any, of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances).
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) in the case of an annual meeting, not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the one-year anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is convened more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, or if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever mailing or public disclosure occurs first; and (ii) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever occurs first. In no event shall an adjournment of an annual or special meeting, or a postponement of such a meeting for which notice has been given, or the public disclosure thereof, commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
provided
however
Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no public disclosure naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation on or before the tenth day before a stockholder's notice of nomination must be delivered to the Corporation in accordance with the preceding paragraph, a stockholder's notice required by this Section shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day after the day on which such public disclosure is first made by the Corporation.
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (c) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock (if any) of the Corporation which are owned, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record
 
by the person and (d) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors required pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf such nomination is made (each, a "party") (a) the name and address of each such party, (b)(1) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record by each such party, (2) any Derivative Instrument directly or indirectly owned beneficially by each such party, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (3) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which either party has a right to vote, directly or indirectly, any shares of any security of the Corporation, (4) any short interest in any security of the Corporation held by each such party (for purposes of this Section 16, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (5) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially directly or indirectly by each such party that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (6) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which either party is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (7) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that each such party is directly or indirectly entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of each such party's immediate family sharing the same household (which information set forth in this clause (b) shall be supplemented by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, as the case may be, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date); (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between each such party and each proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made, (d) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice, (e) a representation (a "Nominee Solicitation Representation") whether either party will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to a sufficient number of holders of the Corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such party to elect its nominee or nominees and (f) any other information relating to each such party that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 16. If the chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the Chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 15 and this Section 16, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in such sections. Nothing in such sections shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 1. . The number of members of the Board of Directors shall be fixed, from time to time, exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock, if any. Except as provided in Section 2 of this Article III, other than in a Contested Election of Directors (as defined below), directors shall be elected by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. In a Contested Election of Directors, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast on the election of directors. The term "Contested Election of Directors" shall mean an annual or special meeting of the Corporation with respect to which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated or intends to nominate a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Article II, Section 16 of these By-Laws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the tenth day before the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. Stockholders shall be entitled to cast votes "against" nominees for director unless plurality voting applies in the election of directors.
Number and Election of Directors
A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and thereafter until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Directors need not be stockholders. The directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors. The initial division of the members of the Board of Directors into classes shall be made by the decision of the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The term of the initial Class I directors shall terminate on the date of the 2008 annual meeting; the term of the initial Class II directors shall terminate on the date of the 2009 annual meeting; and the term of the initial Class III directors shall terminate on the date of the 2010 annual meeting. At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders beginning in 2008, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.
 
Section 2. . Subject to the terms of any one or more classes or series of preferred stock, any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, that a quorum is present, and any other vacancy occurring on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors of such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
Vacancies
provided
Section 3. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Duties and Powers
Section 4. . The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, or the Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the entire Board of Directors, and shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as they or he or she shall specify. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail posted not less than five (5) days before the date of the meeting, by telephone, email, facsimile or telegram or other means of electronic communication delivered or sent not less than twelve (12) hours before the date and time of the meeting, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting, irrespective of whether such business is set forth in such notice.
Meetings
Section 5. . At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, in his or her absence, a director chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall act as chairman. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at each meeting of the Board of Directors. In case the Secretary shall be absent from any meeting of the Board of Directors, an Assistant Secretary shall perform the duties of secretary at such meeting; and in the absence from any such meeting of the Secretary and all the Assistant Secretaries, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
Section 6. . Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time, by giving notice in writing to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time therein specified or upon the conditions therein specified or, if no time or conditions are specified, immediately; and, unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Except as otherwise required by applicable law and subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of shares of preferred stock then outstanding, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause, and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding capital stock entitled to vote at an election of directors.
Resignations and Removals of Directors
 
Section 7. . Except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
Section 8. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting, if all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Actions of the Board by Written Consent
Section 9. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 9 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
Section 10. . The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Committees
A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 4 of this Article. The Board of Directors shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent
 
the Board of Directors from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; , , that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board of Directors.
provided
however
Section 11. . The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary for service as director, payable in cash or securities. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for service as committee members. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his successor, his death, his resignation or his removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Compensation
Section 12. . No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because any such director's or officer's vote is counted for such purpose if: (i) the material facts as to the director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to the director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Interested Directors
Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer, President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, also may choose a Chairman of the Board of Directors (who must be a director), a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors (who must be a director) and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor, except in the case of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, need such officers be directors of the Corporation.
General
 
Section 2. . The Board of Directors, at its first meeting held after each annual meeting of stockholders, as necessary, shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and each officer of the Corporation shall hold office until such officer's successor is elected and qualified, or until such officer's earlier death, resignation or removal. Any officer may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors or, except in the case of an officer elected by the Board, by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors. The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Election
Section 3. . Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chief Executive Officer, President or any Vice President or any other officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
Section 4. . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Section 5. . The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, shall assume all of the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors assigned by these By-Laws in the event of the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors
Section 6. . The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer shall execute all bonds, mortgages, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation requiring a seal, under the seal of the Corporation, except where required or permitted by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except that the other officers of the Corporation may sign and execute documents when so authorized by these By-Laws, the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned to such officer by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
 
Section 7. . At the request of the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, or in the event of his or her inability or refusal to act, the President shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon such office. The President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe, and shall, in general, have such other duties and responsibilities as are assigned consistent with the authority of a President of a corporation.
President
Section 8. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
Section 9. . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for committees of the Board of Directors when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, under whose supervision the Secretary shall be. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest to the affixing by such officer's signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.
Secretary
Section 10. . The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation.
Treasurer
Section 11. . Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of the Secretary's inability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries
 
Section 12. . Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of the Treasurer's inability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurers
Section 13. . Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Other Officers
Section 1. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, each class or series of the shares of capital stock in the Corporation shall be issued in uncertificated form pursuant to the customary arrangements for issuing shares in such form. Shares shall be transferable only on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by attorney upon presentment of proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer in accordance with the customary procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form.
Uncertificated Shares
Section 2. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Dividend Record Date
Section 3. . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise required by law.
Record Owners
 
Section 4. . The Corporation may from time to time maintain one or more transfer offices or agencies and registry offices or agencies at such place or places as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Transfer and Registry Agents
Section 1. . Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director or member of a committee of the Board of Directors, such notice may be given either personally, by mail, facsimile, telegraph or other means of electronic communication or by other lawful means. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders may be given by electronic transmission in the manner provided in Section 232 of the DGCL.
Notices
Section 2. . Whenever any notice is required by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director, member of a committee of the Board of Directors or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person or persons entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of stockholders or any regular or special meeting of the directors or a committee of the Board of Directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
Waivers of Notice
Section 1. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the requirements of the DGCL and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors (or any action by written consent in lieu thereof in accordance with Section 8 of Article III hereof), and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for purchasing any of the shares of capital stock, warrants, rights, options, bonds, debentures, notes, scrip or other securities or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Dividends
 
Section 2. . All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Disbursements
Section 3. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the 31
Fiscal Year
st
day of December in each year, or on such other day as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 4. . The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Corporate Seal
Section 1. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation), by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (whether the basis of such action, suit or proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving in such official capacity), against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings other than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation
Section 2. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (whether the basis of such action, suit or proceeding is alleged
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving in such official capacity), against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Court") or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court or such other court shall deem proper.
Section 3. . To obtain indemnification under this By-Law, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Any indemnification under this Article VIII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the present or former director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a director or officer at the time of such determination, (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion or (iv) by the stockholders. Such determination shall be made, with respect to former directors and officers, by any person or persons having the authority to act on the matter on behalf of the Corporation. To the extent, however, that a present or former director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding described above, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
Authorization of Indemnification
Section 4. . Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII, and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any present or former director or officer may apply to the Delaware Court for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII if a claim for indemnification is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Corporation. The basis of such indemnification by the Delaware Court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the present or former director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the present or former director or officer seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct. In any such action, the
Indemnification by a Court
 
Corporation shall bear the burden of proving that the present or former director or officer is not entitled to indemnification. Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 4 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application. To the fullest extent permitted by law, if successful, in whole or in part, the present or former director or officer seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such application.
Section 5. . Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a present or former director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VIII. Such expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by other employees or agents may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Corporation deems appropriate. If a claim for advancement of expenses pursuant hereto is not paid in full within 60 days of a request therefor, a present or former director or officer may bring an action in the Delaware Court to recover the unpaid amount of such claim. To the fullest extent permitted by law, if successful in whole or in part in any such action, such person shall be entitled to be paid also the expenses of prosecuting such action. The Corporation shall bear the burden of proving that such person is not entitled to an advancement of his or her expenses.
Expenses Payable in Advance
The Corporation may bring an action in the Delaware Court to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, but the Corporation shall bear the burden of establishing that it is entitled to recover such expenses because the present or former director or officer who received such advancement of expenses has not met the applicable standard of conduct for indemnification set forth in Section 1 or 2 (as applicable) of this Article VIII. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a presumption that the present or former director or officer against whom the action is brought has not met any applicable standard of conduct. To the fullest extent permitted by law, if such present or former director or officer is successful in whole or in part in defending any such action, such person shall be entitled to be paid also the expenses of defending such suit.
Section 6. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, any statute, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. The provisions of this Article VIII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the DGCL, or otherwise.
Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
 
Section 7. . The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VIII.
Insurance
Section 8. . For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors or officers, so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation, or is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article VIII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued. The term "another enterprise" as used in this Article VIII shall mean any other corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent. For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article VIII.
Certain Definitions
Section 9. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. No repeal or modification of this Article VIII shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
Section 10. . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VIII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification (which shall be governed by Section 4 of this Article VIII) or advancement of expenses, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer (or his or her heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives) or advance expenses in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Limitation on Indemnification
 
Section 1. . The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall be required to adopt, amend, alter or repeal the Corporation's By-Laws. The Corporation's By-Laws also may be adopted, amended, altered or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, except that unless approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon shall be required to amend, alter, change or repeal, or to adopt any provision as part of these By-Laws inconsistent with the purpose and intent of any provision of any of Article II, Section 3, 9, 13, 15 or 16 or Article III, Section 1, 2 or 6, Article VIII and Article IX of these By-Laws.
Amendments
Section 2. . As used in this Article IX and in these By-Laws generally, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Entire Board of Directors
* * *
Adopted as of: December 2, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Teradata's Board of Directors is elected by the stockholders to govern the affairs of the Company. The Board selects the senior management team, which is charged with the conduct of the Company's business. Having selected the senior management team, the Board acts as an advisor to senior management and monitors its performance. It reviews the Company's strategies, financial objectives and operating plans. The Board also plans for management succession of the Chief Executive Officer, as well as other senior management positions.
To help discharge its responsibilities, the Teradata Board of Directors has adopted the following guidelines on significant corporate governance issues.
1. Size of the Board
The Board periodically reviews the size of the Board and determines whether any changes are appropriate, although it is the sense of the Board that a board of five to ten members is about right. However, the Board would be willing to increase the size of the Board in order to accommodate the availability of an outstanding candidate.
2. Membership Qualifications and Board Balance
The Board, with input from the Committee on Directors and Governance, is responsible for periodically determining the appropriate skills, perspectives, experiences, and characteristics required of Board candidates, taking into account the Company's needs and current make-up of the Board. This assessment should include knowledge, experience, and skills in areas critical to understanding the Company and its business; personal characteristics, such as integrity and judgment; and candidates' commitments to the boards of other publicly-held companies. Each Board member is expected to ensure that other existing and planned future commitments do not materially interfere with the member's service as a Director and that he or she devotes the time necessary to discharge his or her duties as a Director.
The Committee on Directors and Governance is responsible for periodically reviewing and modifying, as appropriate, these qualification guidelines. The Board believes the qualification guidelines included as Exhibit A are currently appropriate, but it may change these guidelines as the Company's and Board's needs warrant.
3. Director Selection
The Board nominates candidates for election by the stockholders and is responsible for filling vacancies on the Board. The Committee on Directors and Governance will recommend to the Board nominees for election, based on the need for new Board members identified by the Committee, the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or other Board members, as well as incumbent Directors for re-election, as appropriate. In selecting individuals for nomination, the Committee will seek the input of the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer and will consider individuals
 
recommended for Board membership by the Company's stockholders in accordance with the Company's Bylaws and applicable law. The Committee will evaluate all candidates using the qualification guidelines included as Exhibit A, as they may be supplemented by the Committee on Directors and Governance. The Committee will determine if any Board members have relationships with preferred candidates who can help initiate contact with such candidates. The Committee may also use a third-party search firm to assist in identifying and contacting preferred candidates. Prospective candidates will be interviewed by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and at least one member of the Committee on Directors and Governance. During the selection process, the full Board will be informally kept informed of progress. The Committee on Directors and Governance will meet to consider and approve final candidate(s) and seek Board endorsement of the selected candidate. Once a candidate is selected to join the Board, the Chairman of the Board and/or the Chair of the Committee on Directors and Governance will extend the invitation to join the Board on the Board's behalf.
The Committee on Directors and Governance will consider candidates recommended by stockholders for nomination by the Board. Stockholders wanting to suggest Director candidates should submit their suggestions in writing to the Corporate Secretary of the Company, providing the candidate's name, age, residential and business contact information, detailed biographical data and qualifications for service as a Board member, the class or series and number of shares of capital stock (if any) of the Company which are owned beneficially or of record by the candidate, a document signed by the candidate indicating the candidate's willingness to serve, if elected, and evidence of the stockholder's ownership of Company stock. If a stockholder submits a candidate for nomination by the Board, the candidate will be considered using the same criteria that the Board uses to evaluate other candidates for Board nomination. The foregoing procedures apply only to stockholders who wish to submit candidates for consideration as Board nominees for Director. A stockholder wanting to nominate a candidate for Director election must do so by following the procedures described in Article II, Section 16 of the Company's Bylaws.
4. Majority of Independent Directors
As a matter of policy, the Board believes that a substantial majority of the Directors should be independent. The Board adopts the definition of independence described in Exhibit B to these Guidelines. The Board may amend this definition in the future; if it does, it will disclose the revised definition. On an annual basis, with input and a recommendation from the Committee on Directors and Governance, the Board will determine whether each outside Director meets the definition of independence and will disclose its determination. Currently, the Board believes there is no relationship between any outside Director and the Company that would be construed in any way to compromise any outside Director being considered independent.
5. Term Limits
The Board does not believe it should establish term limits. While term limits could help ensure fresh ideas, they also would force the Board to lose the contributions of Directors who have developed an insight into the Company. This insight and continuity of Directors is an advantage, not a disadvantage. As an alternative to term limits, the Committee on Directors and Governance will review a Director's continuation on the Board whenever the Director experiences a change in professional responsibilities, as a way to assure that the Director's skills and experience continue to match the needs of the Board. In addition, in connection with nomination of the slate of Directors that the Board proposes for election by
stockholders each year, the Committee on Directors and Governance will consider re-nominated Directors' continuation on the Board and take steps as may be appropriate to ensure that the Board maintains an openness to new ideas. An individual Director's re-nomination is dependent upon a performance assessment and suitability review conducted by the Committee on Directors and Governance. The performance assessment will take into account the Director's participation in and contribution to the activities of the Board.
6. Retirement Age
The Board believes that Directors should retire from the Board at the first annual meeting following their 72nd birthday.
7. Significant Job Changes
It is the view of the Board that each Director who retires from his or her present employment, or who materially changes his or her position or business or professional responsibilities, should bring this change to the attention of the Committee on Directors and Governance and should offer to resign from the Board. The Board does not believe that each Director who retires or has a change in position or responsibilities should necessarily leave the Board. The Committee on Directors and Governance will, however, review the continued appropriateness of Board membership under these circumstances and make a recommendation to the Board.
This same guideline applies to any inside Directors, including the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, in the event he or she no longer serves in that position. A former Chief Executive Officer serving on the Board will be considered an inside Director.
8. Voting for Directors
Unless there is a Contested Election of Directors (as defined in the Company's Bylaws), Directors are elected by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the stockholders present in person or by proxy at the annual meeting of stockholders. If an incumbent Director is not re-elected by the required majority vote, such Director shall promptly offer his or her resignation after such election. The Board, giving due consideration to the best interests of the Company and its stockholders, shall evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances, including whether the underlying cause(s) of the Director's failure to receive the required majority vote can be cured, and shall make a decision, within 90 days after the election, on whether to accept the offered resignation. Any Director who offers a resignation pursuant to this provision shall not participate in the Board's decision. The Board will promptly disclose publicly its decision and, if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the offered resignation. If the Board accepts a Director's resignation pursuant to this process, the Committee on Directors and Governance will recommend to the Board whether to fill the resulting vacancy or reduce the size of the Board.
9. Other Directorships
Directors should advise the Chairman of the Committee on Directors and Governance in advance of accepting an invitation to serve on another public company board. There should be an opportunity for the Board, through the Committee on Directors and Governance, to review the Director's availability to fulfill his or her
responsibilities as a Director if he or she serves on more than three other public company boards. Service on board of other organizations shall comply with the Company's conflict of interest policies.
10. Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest
Directors are committed to acting at all times in accordance with the requirements of the Company's Code of Conduct, which shall be applicable to each Director in connection with his or her activities relating to the Company. This obligation shall at all times include, without limitation, adherence to the Company's policies with respect to conflicts of interest, confidentiality, protection of the Company's assets, ethical conduct in business dealings and respect for and compliance with applicable law. Any waiver of the requirements of the Code of Conduct with respect to any individual Director shall be reported to, and be subject to the approval of, the Board, and shall be publicly disclosed to the extent required under applicable law.
The Board determines on a case-by-case basis whether a conflict of interest exists. Each Director will advise the Board of any situation that could potentially be a conflict of interest, and the Board expects such Director to abstain from participating in the Board's deliberations on an issue in which he or she has a material conflict of interest.
11. Selection of Chairman of the Board
The Board may select, as it deems best for the Company, the Chairman of the Board. The Board therefore does not have a guideline on whether the role of the Chairman of the Board should be held by a non-employee Director. In the event the Chairman of the Board is not independent, the Board may designate a lead Director who is an independent, non-employee Director.
12. Business Judgment; Indemnification
The basic responsibility of the Directors is to exercise their business judgment in good faith to act in what they believe to be the best interests of the Company. In discharging that obligation, Directors should be entitled to rely on the honesty and integrity of their fellow Directors and of the Company's senior executives, outside advisors and outside auditors. The Directors are also entitled to have the Company purchase reasonable Directors' and officers' liability insurance on their behalf, to the benefits of indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by law and the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
13. Authorization Guidelines
Consistent with the Board's power to delegate to management the day-to-day operations of the Company's business, the Board believes that the allocation of responsibilities and authority currently in place is appropriate, although the Board may alter the authorizations in the future.
14. Assessing the Board's Performance
The Board believes that annual evaluations of the overall performance of the Board should be conducted. This is best accomplished, in the Board's view, by the entire Board under the leadership of the Chair of the Committee on Directors and Governance. The Committee on Directors and Governance, with input from the other Directors, is responsible for determining the performance criteria and process to be used for the evaluation and for conducting the evaluation. The purpose of these evaluations is to enhance the effectiveness of the Board as a whole. Additionally, each Committee of the Board will conduct an annual evaluation of its performance and report the results of the evaluation to the Board.
The performance of individual Directors will be assessed by the Committee on Directors and Governance when a Director is being considered for re-nomination and when a Director offers to resign due to a change in professional responsibilities. The Committee on Directors will choose the method and criteria for these assessments. If, at any time, the Board determines that an individual Director is not meeting the established performance standards and qualification guidelines, or his or her actions reflect poorly upon the Board and the Company, the Board may request the resignation of the non-performing Director.
15. Oversight of Management Evaluation
The Compensation and Human Resource Committee will have oversight of the performance evaluations of the Company's executive officers, including the Chief Executive Officer.
16. Evaluating the CEO's Performance
The Board will review the performance of the Chief Executive Officer at least annually. This evaluation will be conducted by the Compensation and Human Resource Committee, under the leadership of the Committee Chair. The evaluation criteria and the results of the evaluation will be discussed by the Committee with the entire Board in an executive session without the presence of any inside Directors. The Board will consider whether the Chief Executive Officer is providing the best leadership for the Company in the long- and short-term. The results of the review and evaluation will be communicated to the Chief Executive Officer by the Chair of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee. The Board, in its discretion, may conduct this evaluation in conjunction with the Compensation and Human Resource Committee's annual review and setting of the Chief Executive Officer's compensation. The Compensation and Human Resource Committee will use the evaluation results in establishing compensation of the Chief Executive Officer, with a portion of his or her compensation to be tied to performance.
17. Succession Planning and Leadership Development
Each year, the Chief Executive Officer will report to the Compensation and Human Resource Committee on succession planning and his or her recommendation as to a potential successor, along with a review of any development plans recommended for such individuals. The Committee will make an annual report to the Board on succession planning, and the Board will work with the Committee to nominate and evaluate potential successors to the Chief Executive Officer. When the Compensation and Human Resource Committee and the Board review management succession plans for the Chief Executive Officer, they will consider succession in the event of an emergency or retirement of the Chief Executive Officer. In addition, the Compensation and Human Resource Committee, with input from the Chief Executive Officer and other members of management as appropriate, will review annually the Company's program for management development and succession planning for executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer. The Board will also review succession candidates for executive officers other than the Chief Executive Officer and other senior managers as it deems appropriate.
18. Strategic and Operating Plans
At least once a year, the Board will review the Company's strategy and operating plans and provide input to management. The review of the Company's strategic plan ordinarily will occur at the Board's October meeting, and the review of the Company's financial and capital plans ordinarily will take place at the December and/or February meetings. The Board will monitor the Company's performance with respect to these plans.
19. Board Interaction with Investors, Press and Customers
The Board believes that management generally should speak for the Company. Individual Directors may, from time to time, meet or otherwise communicate with various constituencies that are involved with the Company, but it is expected that Directors would do this with the knowledge of the management and, absent unusual circumstances or as contemplated by Committee charters, only at the request of management.
Stockholders wishing to communicate directly with the Board, any individual Director or the independent Directors as a group regarding the Company's business operations, conduct or other matters relating to the Company are welcome to do so by writing the Corporate Secretary of Teradata Corporation at 2835 Miami Village Dr., Miamisburg, Ohio 45342, who will forward any communications as directed.
20. Compensation Philosophy
The Board believes that only cash and equity compensation should be provided to non-employee Directors and that at least fifty percent of a Director's total compensation should be provided in equity, , stock options, stock grants or other awards of stock or stock units. Further, the Board believes that the different components of Director compensation should be disclosed in the Company's annual proxy statement. The Committee on Directors and Governance will periodically review the principles for director compensation.
e.g.
21. Setting of Compensation
The Committee on Directors and Governance will periodically review market data for Director compensation to ensure that the compensation is reasonable and competitive in relation to other similar companies. The Committee should recommend to the full Board whether any changes in the compensation package are desirable, with the full Board to discuss and approve any recommendations. The Committee will take into consideration that Directors' independence may be jeopardized if director compensation and perquisites, if any, exceed customary levels, if the Company makes substantial charitable contributions to organizations with which the Director is affiliated, or if the Company enters into consulting contracts with (or provides other indirect compensation to) a Director or an organization with which the Director is affiliated.
22. Stock Ownership
Each Director should hold stock valued at no less than two times the amount of the annual retainer paid to such Director within three years after he or she is first elected to the Teradata Board. Stock or stock units beneficially owned by the Director, for which beneficial ownership is not disclaimed, including stock or stock units held in a deferral account, should be taken into account. However, for this purpose, the Board does not believe it appropriate to consider stock options granted to Directors by the Company.
23. New Director Orientation
The Company will have an orientation process for new Directors that includes background material and meetings with senior management to familiarize the Directors with the Company's strategic and operating plans, key issues, corporate governance, Code of Conduct, and the senior management team. All other Directors are invited to attend any orientation program. In addition, new members to a Committee will be provided information relevant to the Committee and its roles and responsibilities.
24. Continuing Director Education
The Board believes it is appropriate for Directors, at their discretion, to have access to educational programs related to their duties as Directors on an ongoing basis to enable them to better perform their duties and to recognize and deal appropriately with issues that arise. The Company will provide appropriate funding for these programs. In addition, Directors will receive periodic reviews of the Company's business and visit Company facilities as part of their ongoing review of the Company and its operations.
25. Preparation and Attendance
Directors are expected to attend Board meetings and meetings of Committees on which they serve, and to spend the time needed as necessary to prepare for such meetings and to properly discharge their responsibilities. All Board members are expected to attend the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
26. Frequency and Length of Meetings
The Board will determine the frequency of meetings, taking into consideration the recommendations of management and Board members. The Board believes that four to six regular meetings a year are appropriate, however, the Board and each Committee will meet as frequently as needed for the Directors to properly discharge their responsibilities. The Chairman of the Board will determine the place, time, and length of meetings and may, depending upon the circumstances, call additional Board meetings.
27. Meeting Agenda
The Chairman of the Board, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer (if not also the Chairman) will annually prepare a master agenda. The master agenda will set forth a general agenda of items to be considered by the Board at each of its specified meetings during the year (to the extent this can be foreseen) and will be provided to the entire Board. Thereafter, the Chairman of the Board will establish the agenda for each Board meeting, with each Director being free to suggest items for inclusion on the agenda as well as raise at any Board meeting subjects that are not specifically on the agenda for that meeting.
28. Meeting Materials
Meeting materials, including presentations on specific subjects, will be sent to the Directors in advance, except where the subject matter is too sensitive to be put on paper or the underlying information to be included in the materials is not otherwise available in advance of the meeting. The meeting materials should be as brief as possible while still providing the necessary information. Where feasible, the materials will be mailed one week in advance, so as to give the Directors a weekend over which to review the materials.
29. Attendance of Non-Directors at Meetings
Non-Directors will attend each meeting at the invitation of the Chairman of the Board. It is anticipated that the Chief Financial Officer and the Secretary of the Company will attend each meeting, except for that portion of the meeting held in executive session. The Board encourages the Chief Executive Officer to bring managers into Board meetings who can provide additional insight into items being discussed or who have future potential that the Chief Executive Officer believes should be given exposure to the Board.
30. Board Access to Senior Management and Information
Directors have full and free access to the Company's management and external advisors, and the Board meets regularly with senior management. Any meetings or
contacts that a Director wishes to initiate may be arranged through the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary or directly by the Director. The Directors will use their judgment to ensure that any such contact is not disruptive to the Company's business operations and will, to the extent not inappropriate, copy the Chief Executive Officer on any written communications between a Director and an officer or employee of the Company.
31. Board Access to Independent Advisors
The Board and each Committee has the power to hire, at its discretion, and at the expense of the Company, independent legal, financial or other advisors as they may deem necessary to support it in fulfilling its responsibilities, without consulting with or obtaining the approval of any officer of the Company in advance.
32. Executive Sessions
The Board will conduct an executive session of only independent Directors at each regularly scheduled Board meeting, with one meeting dedicated to the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer. Independent Directors may hold additional executive sessions from time to time, with or without the Chief Executive Officer present, as desired. The format of these meetings will include a discussion afterwards by the presiding Director of the executive session with the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman. Unless otherwise determined by the Board, the Chairman will preside at the executive sessions of independent Directors. The Board will communicate to stockholders, via the proxy statement, as to whom the presiding Director will be for the year. In the event the Chairman of the Board is not an independent Director, the lead Director, if any, will preside at executive sessions of independent Directors.
33. Number of Committees
Currently there are four Committees: Executive, Audit, Compensation and Human Resource, and Committee on Directors and Governance. The Board believes the current committee structure is appropriate. From time to time, depending upon the circumstances, the Board may form a new Committee or disband a current Committee.
34. Assignment of Committee Members
The Board appoints members of the Committees on an annual basis. The Committee on Directors and Governance, with consideration of the desires of individual Directors and input from the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, will recommend to the Board the assignment of Directors to various Committees. Vacancies in the Committees will be filled by the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Directors and Governance, with input from the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. In making assignments to the Committees, only independent Directors may serve on the Audit Committee, the Compensation and Human Resource Committee, or the Committee on Directors and Governance, all members of the Audit Committee must be "financially literate" and at least one member of the Audit Committee must have "accounting or related financial management expertise," as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules or as required under applicable New York Stock Exchange listing requirements. Additionally, a member of the Audit Committee may not sit on more than two other Audit Committees of other public companies, unless the Board determines that such commitments would not impair his or her effective service to the Company.
The Committee on Directors and Governance and the Board will take into account tenure on a Committee and give consideration to rotating committee members periodically, but the Board does not feel that rotation should be mandated as a policy.
35. Committee Charters and Authority
Each Committee has approved a written charter, which has also been approved by the Board. The charter may delegate, as appropriate, certain responsibilities to the Committee. Unless delegated to the Committee either in the charter, the Bylaws or a resolution of the Board, each Committee shall make recommendations to the Board and the Board will consider and approve the recommendations. The Committee charters will be reviewed periodically and may be changed from time to time by approval of the Committee and the Board.
36. Committee Agendas
The Chair of each standing Committee, in consultation with appropriate members of management, will develop each Committee's planning agenda for the year with a schedule of agenda items for the year, to the degree they can be foreseen. Specific agenda items for each Committee meeting will be approved by the Chair of the Committee in consultation with appropriate members of management.
37. Frequency and Length of Committee Meetings
The Committee Chair, in consultation with appropriate members of management, will determine the frequency and length of Committee meetings.
38. Executive Sessions
Each Committee will meet in executive sessions as circumstances warrant. At the Committee's discretion, outside advisors or members of management may meet with the Committee during these executive sessions.
39. Amendment and Interpretation
These Guidelines are in addition to and are not intended to change or interpret any federal or state law or regulation, including the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or any Committee charter reviewed and approved by the Board. The Guidelines are subject to modification from time to time by the Board. In addition, the Board recognizes that situations may arise where the Board may need to take actions that vary from these Guidelines to further the best interests of the Company and its stockholders. Nothing in these Guidelines should be interpreted to prohibit the Board from taking such actions.
The Teradata Board of Directors, or any of its Committees, in considering qualifications of Directors standing for re-election and candidates for Board membership will consider the following factors, in addition to those other factors it may deem relevant:
1. Strong management experience, ideally with major public companies with successful multinational operations.
2. Other areas of expertise or experience that are desirable given the Company's business and the current make-up of the Board, such as expertise or experience in: information technology businesses; the software industry; international, financial or investment banking, scientific research and development, or senior level government experience; and academic leadership.
3. Desirability of range in age, so that retirements are staggered to permit replacement of Directors of desired skills and experience in a way that will permit appropriate continuity of Board members.
4. Independence, as defined by the Board.
5. Diversity of perspectives brought to the Board by individual members.
6. Knowledge and skills in accounting and finance, business judgment, general management practices, crisis response and management, industry knowledge, international markets, leadership, and strategic planning.
7. Personal characteristics matching the Company's values, such as integrity, accountability, financial literacy, and high performance standards.
8. Additional characteristics, such as:
a) willingness to commit the time required to fully discharge their responsibilities to the Teradata Board, including the time to prepare for Board and Committee meetings by reviewing the material supplied before each meeting;
b) commitment to attend a minimum of 75% of meetings;
c) ability and willingness to represent the stockholders' long- and short-term interests;
d) awareness of the Company's responsibilities to its customers, employees, suppliers, regulatory bodies, and the communities in which it operates; and
e) willingness to advance their opinions, but once a decision is made by a majority of the Board, willingness to support the majority decision assuming questions of ethics or propriety are not involved.
9. The number of commitments to other entities, with one of the more important factors being the number of other public-company boards on which the individual serves.
On an annual basis, the Teradata Board of Directors shall determine whether a Director will be considered an independent Director who has no material relationship with the Company (either directly or indirectly), taking into account the following factors, in addition to those other factors it may deem relevant:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(i) an officer of the Company,
(ii) an individual who receives more than $100,000 per year in direct compensation from the Company, other than compensation for prior service that is not contingent on continued service,
(iii) an individual affiliated with or an employee of the Company's present or former independent auditors or its affiliates,
(iv) an individual who is an executive officer of another corporation that has (or had) an executive officer of the Company on it board of directors,
(v) an executive officer of a company that has made payment to, or received payments from, the Company in a fiscal year that exceeded the greater of $1 million or 2% of the other company's consolidated gross revenues; or
(vi) any Director who is not considered an independent Director


