FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20080807085149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is furnishing the following information as required under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
On August 7, 2008, the Company issued a press release setting forth its second quarter 2008 revenue and earnings per share amounts along with its forecast for 2008 revenue growth and earnings per share. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
August 7, 2008
 
 
 
 
 Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC), the world's largest company solely focused on data warehousing and enterprise analytics, today reported revenue of $455 million for the second quarter of 2008, a 6 percent increase from $430 million in the second quarter of 2007. Included in the year-over-year comparison was 5 percentage points of benefit from currency translation.
MIAMISBURG, Ohio
(1)
Gross margin in the second quarter was 54.7 percent versus 53.5 percent in the second quarter of 2007. Gross margin improved in both product and services, due to the benefit of currency translation, a favorable mix of transactions and contribution from maintenance services.
Teradata's 2008 second-quarter net income was $69 million, or $0.38 per share, which compared to $49 million, or $0.27 per share, in the second quarter of 2007. As expected, Teradata's 2008 second quarter results included $9 million of incremental costs associated with Teradata now operating as an independent, publicly-traded company. Teradata's 2007 second quarter earnings per share included a $0.04 charge for a tax adjustment. Excluding this item, Teradata's 2007 second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share was $0.31.
(3)
"Teradata delivered solid results in the second quarter of 2008," said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata Corporation. "We achieved good revenue growth in EMEA and in our services business, improved both product and service gross margins, and increased our net income. The strength of our international and services business is helping to offset softness in the U.S. market. We are therefore maintaining our guidance for 2008.
"We remain confident in both our technology and our people, who are the best in the business at helping companies integrate data from throughout their enterprise to enable better, faster decision making to gain competitive advantage."
Regional Operating Segment Results
(2)
Teradata reports its results in three regional operating segments.
Teradata generated $236 million of revenue in its Americas region in the second quarter of 2008, down 6 percent from $251 million in the second quarter of 2007. The revenue decline in the Americas region was largely due to customer deferrals relating to the economic environment in the United States.
Gross margin in the Americas region in the second quarter of 2008 was 58.9 percent, compared to 56.2 percent in the second quarter of 2007. Gross margin in the Americas improved primarily due to favorable product deal mix and improved services gross margin.
Revenue in Teradata's EMEA region in the second quarter of 2008 was $128 million, up 33 percent from $96 million generated in the second quarter of 2007. The year-over-year revenue increase was led by strong product revenue growth. Currency translation benefited revenue growth in the EMEA region by 11 percentage points.
Gross margin in the EMEA region in the second quarter of 2008 was 53.9 percent, an increase from 46.9 percent in the second quarter of 2007. Gross margin in the EMEA region improved due to the benefit of currency translation, higher product volume and a greater mix of product revenue as compared to services revenue.
Teradata generated $91 million of revenue in its APJ region in the second quarter of 2008, a 10 percent increase from $83 million reported in the second quarter of 2007. The year-over-year revenue comparison in the APJ region benefited by 11 percentage points from currency translation.
Gross margin in the APJ region in the second quarter of 2008 was 50.5 percent, down from the 53.0 percent generated in the second quarter of 2007. The lower margin was influenced by the geographic mix of product sales within the region as compared to the prior year period, as well as the higher mix of service revenue as compared to the second quarter of 2007.
Company Operating Results
Second quarter of 2008 operating income was $92 million, compared to $88 million in the second quarter of 2007. Higher overall revenue volume, the net benefit of currency and a favorable deal mix more than offset lower product revenue in the Americas region and the incremental costs associated with Teradata now operating as an independent, publicly-traded company.
Other income in the second quarter of 2008 was $2 million, primarily from interest income earned on Teradata's cash balance. Teradata was not an independent company in 2007, and therefore did not have interest income in the prior-year period.
The effective tax rate in the second quarter of 2008 results was 27 percent versus 44 percent in the second quarter of 2007. Teradata now expects its full-year effective tax rate for 2008 to be approximately 26 to 27 percent.
During the second quarter of 2008, Teradata generated $85 million of cash from operations, compared to $93 million in the same period in 2007. Cash from operations was lower in the quarterly year-over-year comparison due to additions to working capital.
Capital expenditures of $25 million were comparable to $27 million in the second quarter of 2007. Teradata generated $60 million of free cash flow (cash from operations less capital expenditures and additions to capitalized software) in the second quarter of 2008, versus $66 million in the same period last year.
(3)
 
As of June 30, 2008, Teradata had $367 million in cash and short-term investments, an increase of $28 million from March 31, 2008. The company repurchased approximately 1.4 million shares for $34 million in the second quarter. Free cash flow generation more than offset the use of cash for share repurchases during the quarter.
Teradata had no short- or long-term debt outstanding as of June 30, 2008.
Teradata continues to expect 2008 full-year revenue growth of approximately 5 to 8 percent, and earnings per share in the $1.35 to $1.45 range.
 
A conference call is scheduled today at 10:00 a.m. (EDT) to discuss the company's second-quarter results, as well as its full-year guidance for 2008. Access to the conference call, as well as a replay of the call, is available on Teradata's Web site at .
www.teradata.com/investor
Supplemental financial information regarding Teradata's operating results is also available on Teradata's Web site.
About Teradata Corporation
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world's largest company solely focused on raising intelligence through data warehousing and enterprise analytics. Teradata is in more than 60 countries and on the Web at .
www.teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
Teradata reports its results in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States, or GAAP. However, as described in footnotes 2 and 3 below, the company believes that certain non-GAAP measures found in this release are useful for investors.
 
 
 
(a) The following table reconciles Teradata's earnings per diluted share under GAAP in the second quarter 2007 to the company's EPS during the period excluding the impact of an extraordinary tax item. Our management regularly uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, such as EPS excluding certain extraordinary items, internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. The company believes such non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the company's ongoing operations and are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations and results.
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures:
 
(b) Teradata defines free cash flow as cash provided/used by operating activities less capital expenditures for property and equipment, and additions to capitalized software. Free cash flow does not have a uniform definition under GAAP and therefore, Teradata's definition may differ from other companies' definition of this measure. Teradata's management uses free cash flow to assess the financial performance of the company and believes it is useful for investors because it relates the operating cash flow of the company to the capital that is spent to continue and improve business operations. In particular, free cash flow indicates the amount of cash generated after capital expenditures for, among other things, investment in the company's existing businesses, strategic acquisitions, strengthening the company's balance sheet, repurchase of company stock and repayment of the company's debt obligations, if any. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures since there may be other nondiscretionary expenditures that are not deducted from the measure. This non-GAAP measure should not be considered a substitute for or superior to cash flows from operating activities under GAAP.
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially.
In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the uncertain economic climate and its impact on the markets in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the impact of our separation from NCR Corporation and risks relating to our ability to operate effectively as a stand-alone, publicly traded company; changes in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations following our separation from NCR; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the data enterprise warehousing business, including the increased pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described from time to time in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the company's annual reports to stockholders The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Schedule A
 
Schedule B
 
 
Schedule C
 
Schedule D
 
 


