FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20080212091524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is furnishing the following information as required under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
On February 12, 2008, the Company issued a press release setting forth its fourth quarter 2007 revenue and earnings per share amounts along with its forecast for 2008 earnings per share. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
On February 12, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors of the Company authorized two stock repurchase programs. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and hereby incorporated by reference. The employee stock dilution offset program is an ongoing self-funding, anti-dilution program that uses the cash received from employee share purchases under the Teradata Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan and option exercises under the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan to repurchase Company common stock on the open market at management's discretion, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases. In addition, the Board authorized a general open market share repurchase program pursuant to which the Company may spend up to $250,000,000 over a two-year period to repurchase its common stock on the open market at management's discretion, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases.
 
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Release on February 12, 2008
 
 
 
 Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC), the world's largest company solely focused on data warehousing and enterprise analytics, today reported 2007 revenue of $1.702 billion, an increase of 10 percent from $1.547 billion in 2006.
MIAMISBURG, Ohio
(1)
The full-year revenue comparison was aided by 2 percentage points from currency fluctuations. For the quarter ended December 31, 2007, revenue was $466 million, an increase of 3 percent from $453 million in 2006.
(1)
The fourth quarter comparison included 3 percentage points of benefit from currency fluctuations. In addition, Teradata's full-year 2006 results are revised in Schedules A-D of this release from those reported in Teradata's registration statement on Form 10, dated August 27, 2007, to correct an error relating to the timing of a transaction included in Teradata's fourth quarter results of 2006.
(1)
Gross margin in the fourth quarter improved to 56.0 percent from 53.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. Gross margin for the full year was 53.8 percent, versus 53.6 percent generated in 2006.
Teradata reported fourth-quarter net income under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) of $79 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, which favorably compared to GAAP net income of $62 million, or $0.34 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006. Included in the 2007 fourth quarter results were $2 million of pre-tax expenses related to Teradata's spin off from NCR Corporation (NYSE: NCR) that occurred at the end of the third
quarter, and a $6 million one-time tax benefit related to the utilization of certain tax attributes associated with foreign sourced income. Excluding these items, non-GAAP earnings were $0.40per diluted share,
(2)
which compares to $0.34 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2006.
(1)
For the full-year, Teradata reported GAAP net income of $200 million, or $1.10 per diluted share which included $17 million of pre-tax expenses related to Teradata's spin off from NCR and $9 million of net unfavorable tax adjustments. Excluding these items, non-GAAP earnings for the full-year 2007 was $1.24 per diluted share,
(2)
compared to $1.06 per diluted share in 2006.
(1)
"2007 was a successful year for Teradata in many ways. We generated 10 percent revenue growth, delivered on our earnings commitments and continued to advance our market-leading technology, while setting up our new company and completing our spin off from NCR," said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata. "We are pleased with both our product and services results and our strong international performance."
"I am confident in our future as demand for Teradata's enterprise data warehousing and enterprise analytics remains strong. Customers around the world know they can rely on Teradata's unrivaled ability to provide detailed analytics throughout their business. In today's challenging economic environment, companies need this ability more than ever in order to effectively manage their businesses," Koehler continuedWe are well positioned to continue to lead the enterprise data warehousing market."
. "
Regional Operating Segment Results
(3)
Teradata reports its results in three regional operating segments.
Teradata generated $253 million of revenue in its Americas region in the fourth quarter of 2007, down 3 percent from $262 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. For the full year, revenue in the Americas region increased 5 percent to $964 million. The full-year revenue comparison included 1 percentage point of benefit from currency translation.
Gross margin in the Americas region in the fourth quarter of 2007 was 60.9 percent, compared to 59.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. Gross margin in the Americas region for the full-year 2007 was 58.1 percent, compared to 59.2 percent in 2006. For the year, gross margin in the Americas was lower due to an unfavorable revenue mix and lower services margin.
Revenue in Teradata's EMEA region in the fourth quarter of 2007 was $122 million, up 5 percent from $116 million generated in the fourth quarter of 2006. Currency translation benefited revenue growth in the EMEA region by 7 percentage points. For the full year, revenue in the EMEA region increased 18 percent to $424 million. The full-year revenue comparison included 7 percentage points of benefit from currency translation.
Gross margin in the EMEA region in the fourth quarter of 2007 was 50.0 percent, an increase from 46.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. Gross margin of 48.8 percent for the full-year 2007 compared favorably to 46.7 percent in 2006 due to higher product and services gross margins.
Teradata generated $91 million of revenue in its APJ region in the fourth quarter of 2007, a 21 percent increase from the $75 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. Revenue growth in the APJ region was benefited by 7 percentage points from currency translation. For the full-year, revenue in the APJ region increased 18 percent to $314 million. Currency translation provided 3 percentage points of benefit in the full-year revenue comparison.
Gross margin in the APJ region in the fourth quarter of 2007 was 53.8 percent, compared to 48.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2006. Gross margin in the APJ region for the full-year 2007 was 50.6 percent compared to 47.2 percent in 2006. Gross margin in the APJ region improved due to higher product margin and a favorable revenue mix.
Operating Income
Fourth-quarter operating income of $96 million was the same as reported in the fourth quarter of 2006. Included in the results for the fourth quarter of 2007 was incremental ongoing costs associated with Teradata becoming an independent, publicly-traded company, and non-recurring costs associated with Teradata's spin off from NCR. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding the non-recurring spin-off costs, but including the other incremental costs, operating income was $98 million, compared to $96 million generated in the fourth quarter of 2006.
(1) (2)
2007 full-year operating income was $320 million, an increase from $302 million in 2006. Included in these results were increased investments in demand creation, and research and development, as well as non-recurring costs associated with Teradata's spin off from NCR and the incremental on-going costs associated with Teradata becoming an independent, publicly-traded company. Non-GAAP operating income excluding the non-recurring spin-off costs was $337 million, compared to $302 million generated in 2006.
(1) (2)
Other Items
Other income in the fourth quarter of 2007 was $2 million, primarily from interest income earned on Teradata's cash balance. Other income for the full year was also $2 million, as Teradata did not receive interest income earned on NCR's cash balance prior to the completion of its spin off from NCR on September 30, 2007. Teradata did not have other income in 2006.
The effective income tax rate in the fourth quarter of 2007 results was 19.4 percent. Included in the fourth quarter income tax provision was a $7 million one-time tax benefit related to the utilization of certain tax attributes associated with foreign sourced income as well as the tax effect of the one-time spin-off costs (which equates to a 6.6 point benefit to the fourth quarter 2007 tax rate). The effective income tax rate for the full year was 37.9 percent. The full-year tax rate included the impact of a tax adjustment in the second quarter when Teradata was part of NCR, a charge recognized in the third quarter related to a tax rate change in Germany and the one-time tax benefit in the fourth quarter. These items had a net 4.5 point unfavorable impact on Teradata's income tax rate for the full year. Teradata expects its full-year effective tax rate for 2008 to be approximately 30 percent.
During the fourth quarter, Teradata generated $98 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $53 million in the same period last year. Capital expenditures in the fourth quarter of 2007 of $31 million compared to $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. Teradata generated $67 million of free cash flow (cash from operations less capital expenditures and capitalized software)
(4)
in the fourth quarter of 2007, versus generating $33 million in the same period last year.
Full-year cash from operating activities was $387 million, a $168 million increase from the $219 million generated in 2006. Teradata's free cash flow for the full year increased to $287 million, compared to $151 million generated in 2006.
(4)
 
Teradata ended 2007 with $270 million in cash and cash equivalents, a $74 million increase from the September 30, 2007 spin-off date.
Although Teradata has $300 million available through a new credit facility, there was no short- or long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2007.
Teradata expects 2008 full-year revenue growth of approximately 5 to 8 percent. Teradata expects its 2008 GAAP earnings to be $1.35 to $1.45 per share, which does not reflect any unforeseen special items, if any, that may occur in 2008.
 
A conference call is scheduled today at 10:00 a.m. (EDT) to discuss the company's fourth-quarter and full-year 2007 results, as well as its guidance for 2008. Access to the conference call, as well as a replay of the call, is available on Teradata's Web site at .
www.teradata.com/investor
Supplemental financial information regarding Teradata's 2007 operating results is also available on Teradata's Web site.
On September 30, 2007, NCR completed its spin off of its Teradata data warehousing business. The spin off was effected through the tax-free distribution of 100 percent of the common stock of Teradata to NCR's shareholders on a 1-for-1 basis. Each NCR shareholder of record received the same number of shares of Teradata that the shareholder owned of NCR as of the close of business on the September 14, 2007, the record date for the distribution.
About Teradata Corporation
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world's largest company solely focused on raising intelligence through data warehousing and enterprise analytics. Teradata is in more than 60 countries and on the Web at .
www.teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
Teradata reports its results in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States, or GAAP. However, as described in footnotes 2 through 4 below, the company believes that certain non-GAAP measures found in this release are useful for investors.
 
The revision had no impact on Teradata's net cash provided by operating activities or the company's cash and cash equivalents for the period ended December 31, 2006
Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures:
 
 
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially.
In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the uncertain economic climate and its impact on the markets in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the impact of our separation from NCR Corporation and risks relating to our ability to operate effectively as a stand-alone, publicly traded company; changes in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations following our separation from NCR; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the data enterprise warehousing business, including the increasing pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described in Teradata Corporation's Registration Statement on Form 10, and those factors that will be detailed from time to time in the company's U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reports and the company's annual reports to stockholders The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Schedule A
 
Schedule B
 
Schedule C
 
Schedule D
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
For Release on February 12, 2008
 Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC), the world's largest company solely focused on data warehousing and enterprise analytics, today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a stock repurchase program that authorizes Teradata to repurchase up to $250 million of its common stock over a two-year period.
MIAMISBURG, Ohio
"This new stock repurchase program reflects our confidence in Teradata's future," said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata. "Teradata's strong balance sheet and increasing cash from operations afford us the flexibility to drive incremental shareholder returns through share-repurchase activity without detracting from our ability to invest in the growth of our businesses and explore strategic opportunities."
In addition, the Board has authorized an ongoing, self-funded offset dilution program that will use cash received from employee share purchases, under the Teradata Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and option exercises, under the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, to repurchase Company common stock.
Under both programs, the stock will be repurchased periodically on an ongoing basis in open market transactions at management's discretion, in accordance with applicable securities rules regarding issuer repurchases.
About Teradata Corporation
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world's largest company solely focused on raising intelligence through data warehousing and enterprise analytics. Teradata is in more than 60 countries and on the Web at .
www.teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially.
In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the uncertain economic climate and its impact on the markets in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the impact of our separation from NCR Corporation and risks relating to our ability to operate effectively as a stand-alone, publicly traded company; changes in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations following our separation from NCR; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the data enterprise warehousing business, including the increasing pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition
and alliance opportunities; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described in Teradata Corporation's Registration Statement on Form 10, and those factors that will be detailed from time to time in the company's U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission reports and the company's annual reports to stockholders The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


