FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20081014135407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At its July 29, 2008 meeting, as disclosed in the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 1, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata") elected Peter L. Fiore and Cary T. Fu as Class II directors of Teradata, with terms expiring in 2009.
At its October 7, 2008 meeting, in order to more evenly balance its director classes, the Board accepted the resignation of Cary Fu ("Mr. Fu") as a Class II director of Teradata and immediately re-appointed him as a Class III director. The term of the Class III directors expires at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Mr. Fu is an independent director, and there continue to be no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Fu and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director. There are no transactions involving Mr. Fu that would be required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. Mr. Fu will continue as a member of the Audit Committee of the Board and his compensation arrangements with the Company were not modified as a result of his resignation and re-appointment.
At the October 7, 2008 meeting, the Board also approved amendments to certain of Teradata's executive compensation arrangements for its named executive officers to make changes mandated by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). These amendments generally are technical in nature and affect the timing, but not the amount, of compensation that could be received by the named executive officers. The more significant of these amendments are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing descriptions of the amendments are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the plans and agreements, as amended, which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.5 and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 13, 2008
 

Exhibit 10.1
October 7, 2008
Mr. Michael F. Koehler
Teradata Corporation
11695 Johns Creek Parkway
Johns Creek, GA 30097
Dear Mike:
This letter amends the letter agreement between you and Teradata Corporation ("Teradata" or the "Company") dated August 3, 2007 (the "Agreement"). As we have discussed, the amendments set forth below are necessary in order for the Agreement to comply with the new tax rules imposed under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
"  In the event of your "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code")) due to termination by the Company without Cause (as defined in the Change in Control Severance Plan as of the Start Date) or your resignation for Good Reason (as defined in the Change in Control Severance Plan as of the Start Date but subject to the final sentence of this paragraph) prior to a Change in Control of the Company, you will be entitled to receive the following:
Severance Benefits
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Severance Benefit and Pro-Rated MIP will only be paid to you if you execute a release of claims substantially in the form attached as Exhibit A hereto after your separation from service, with such changes as are necessary or appropriate to account for changes in law or regulation (the "Release"), and the Release has become effective and irrevocable in accordance with its terms (taking into account any applicable revocation period set forth therein) within 55 days following your separation from service. In order to invoke a termination for Good Reason, you must provide written notice to the Company of the existence of one or more of the conditions described in the definition of Good Reason within 90 days following the initial existence of such condition or conditions, and the Company shall have 30 days following receipt of such written notice (the "Cure Period") during which it may remedy the condition. In the event that the Company fails to remedy the condition constituting Good Reason during the Cure Period, you must terminate employment, if at all, within 30 days following the Cure Period in order to terminate employment for Good Reason."
 
"at any time from the Start Date through your remaining lifetime (or, if longer, through the 20th anniversary of the Start Date). To the extent that the reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses is considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the reimbursement must be paid as soon as reasonably practicable after, but in any event not later than the end of the calendar year in which, you are declared the prevailing party. The amount of such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and your right to have Teradata pay such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit."
 
" - Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Agreement, if you are a "specified employee," as determined under Teradata's policy for identifying specified employees on the date of termination, then to the extent required in order to comply with Section 409A of the Code, all payments, benefits or reimbursements paid or provided under this Agreement that
Section 409A
 
constitute a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, that are provided as a result of a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and that would otherwise be paid or provided during the first six months following such separation from service shall be accumulated through and paid or provided (together with interest from the date of termination at the applicable federal rate under Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code in effect on the date of termination), on the first business day that is more than six months following your separation from service (or, if you die during such six-month period, within 30 days after your death).
 
Please indicate your acceptance of the amendment to the Agreement by signing below and returning a copy to me.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
October 7, 2008
Mr. Stephen Scheppmann
Teradata Corporation
11695 Johns Creek Parkway
Johns Creek, GA 30097
Dear Steve:
This letter amends the letter agreement between you and Teradata Corporation ("Teradata" or the "Company") dated August 20, 2007 (the "Agreement"). As we have discussed, the amendment set forth below is necessary in order for the Agreement to comply with the new tax rules imposed under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
 
"at any time from the Start Date through your remaining lifetime (or, if longer, through the 20th anniversary of the Start Date). To the extent that the reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses is considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the reimbursement must be paid as soon as reasonably practicable after, but in any event not later than the end of the calendar year in which, you are declared the prevailing party. The amount of such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and your right to have Teradata pay such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit."
 
" - Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Agreement, if you are a "specified employee," as determined under Teradata's policy for identifying specified employees on the date of termination, then to the extent required in order to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code"), all payments, benefits or reimbursements paid or provided under this Agreement that constitute a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, that are provided as a result of a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and that would otherwise be paid or provided during the first six months following such separation from service shall be accumulated through and paid or provided (together with interest from the date of termination at the applicable federal rate under Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code in effect on the date of termination), on the first business day that is more than six months following your separation from service (or, if you die during such six-month period, within 30 days after your death)."
Section 409A
Please indicate your acceptance of the amendment to the Agreement by signing below and returning a copy to me.
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
The Board of Directors of Teradata Corporation (the "") recognizes that, from time to time, the Company may explore potential transactions that could result in a Change in Control of the Company. This possibility and the uncertainty it creates may result in the loss or distraction of certain key Employees of the Company to the detriment of the Company and its shareholders.
Board
The Board considers the avoidance of such loss and distraction to be essential to protecting and enhancing the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. The Board also believes that when a Change in Control is perceived as imminent, or is occurring, the Board should be able to receive and rely on disinterested service from Employees regarding the best interests of the Company and its shareholders without concern that Employees might be distracted or concerned by the personal uncertainties and risks created by the perception of an imminent or occurring Change in Control.
In addition, the Board believes that it is consistent with the Company's employment practices and policies and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to treat fairly its Employees whose employment terminates in connection with or following a Change in Control.
Accordingly, the Board has determined that appropriate steps should be taken to assure the Company of the continued employment and attention and dedication to duty of its Employees and to seek to ensure the availability of their continued service, notwithstanding the possibility or occurrence of a Change in Control.
Therefore, in order to fulfill the above purposes, the Board has caused the Company to adopt this Teradata Corporation Change in Control Severance Plan (the "").
Plan
The Plan is intended to comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), and other applicable laws.
ERISA
To the extent the separation pay portion of the Plan is a pension plan, it qualifies for exemption from Parts II, III and IV of ERISA as a plan maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated Employees under Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA.
On October 7, 2008, the Plan was amended and restated in its entirety, as set forth herein, to comply with the final regulations issued under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
As of the Effective Date, the Company established the Teradata Corporation Change in Control Severance Plan. On October 7, 2008, the Plan was amended and restated in its entirety, as set forth in this document, to comply with the final regulations issued under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
As used herein, the following words and phrases shall have the following respective meanings:
(a) "". As defined is Section 4.4(b).
Accounting Firm
(b) "". The Participant's wages or base salary on an annualized basis, excluding all bonus, overtime, health additive and incentive compensation, payable by the Company as consideration for the Participant's services.
Base Salary
(c) "". An amount equal to the Participant's average bonus earned under the Company's Management Incentive Plan, or any comparable bonus under any predecessor or successor plan (or comparable plans of any predecessor company including without limitation NCR Corporation), for the last three full fiscal years prior to the Date of Termination (or for such lesser number of full fiscal years prior to the Date of Termination for which the Participant was eligible to earn such a bonus, and annualized in the case of any pro rata bonus earned for a partial fiscal year), that in the event that the Participant was not eligible to receive an annual bonus during any of the preceding three full fiscal years, an amount equal to the Participant's Target Bonus.
Bonus Amount
provided
(d) "". The Board of Directors of Teradata Corporation.
Board
(e) "". A termination for "Cause" shall have occurred where a Participant is terminated because of (A) the willful and continued failure of the Participant to perform substantially the Participant's duties with the Company or any of its affiliates (other than any such failure resulting from incapacity due to physical or mental illness) for a period of at least thirty (30) days after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Participant by the Board or, unless the Participant is the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, specifically identifying the manner in which the Board or, except if the Participant is the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Executive Officer believes that the Participant has not substantially performed the Participant's duties; or (B) the willful engaging by the Participant in illegal conduct or gross misconduct which is materially and demonstrably injurious to the Company. For purposes of this provision, no act or failure to act, on the part of the Participant, shall be considered "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in bad faith or without reasonable belief that the Participant's action or omission was in the best interests of the Company. Any act, or failure to act, based upon authority given pursuant to a resolution duly adopted by the Board or upon the instructions of the Chief Executive Officer (except if the Participant is the Chief Executive Officer) or based upon the advice of counsel for the Company shall be conclusively presumed
Cause
 
to be done, or omitted to be done, by the Participant in good faith and in the best interests of the Company. The termination of employment of the Participant shall not be deemed to be for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to the Participant a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice is provided to the Participant and the Participant is given an opportunity, together with counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, the Participant is guilty of the conduct described in subsection (A) or (B) above, and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
(f) "". The occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control
(i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) (a "") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of thirty percent (30%) or more of either (a) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "") or (b) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the ""); , that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (d) any acquisition pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (iii) of this Section; or
Exchange Act
Person
Outstanding Company Common Stock
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
provided, however
(ii) If within any 24-month period, individuals who, as of the date of this Plan, constitute the Board (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date of this Plan whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (
Incumbent Board
provided, however
 2
/
3
) of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
(iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another entity (a ""), in each case, unless, following such Corporate Transaction, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote
Corporate Transaction
 
generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be; (B) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, thirty percent (30%) or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Corporate Transaction; and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Corporate Transaction; or
(iv) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Separation (as defined in the Separation Agreement) shall not constitute a Change in Control.
(g) "". As defined in Section 7.1.
Claimant
(h) "". As defined in Section 4.2(c).
COBRA Coverage
(i) "". The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
(j) "". Teradata Corporation and any successor thereto.
Company
(k) "". The Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board.
Compensation Committee
(l) "". The date on which a Participant has a "separation from service" with the Company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
Date of Termination
(m) "". The absence of the Participant from the Participant's duties with the Company on a full-time basis for 180 consecutive business days as a result of incapacity due to mental or physical illness that is determined to be total and permanent by a physician selected by the Company or its insurers and acceptable to the Participant or the Participant's legal representative.
Disability
(n) "". The Distribution Date as defined in the Separation Agreement.
Effective Date
(o) "". Any regular, full-time or part-time employee of the Company or its Affiliates.
Employee
 
(p) "". Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
(q) "". With respect to any Participant, the occurrence of any of the following events without the Participant's prior written consent:
Good Reason
(i) the assignment to the Participant of any duties inconsistent in any respect with the Participant's position (including offices, titles and reporting requirements), authority, duties or responsibilities, as in effect immediately prior to a Change in Control, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Participant;
(ii) any reduction in the Participant's Base Salary below the Required Base Salary,
(iii) the failure to pay incentive compensation to which the Participant is otherwise entitled under the terms of the Company's Management Incentive Plan ("") or the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (""), or any successor incentive compensation plans, at the time at which such awards are usually paid or as soon thereafter as administratively feasible;
MIP
SIP
(iv) the reduction in Target Bonus or Maximum Bonus for a Participant under the MIP or any successor plan or the reduction in any SIP Target Award or SIP Maximum Award under the SIP or any successor incentive compensation plan, other than in the case of a reduction in any SIP Target Award or SIP Maximum Award, such reduction is pursuant to an across-the-board reduction applicable to similarly situated executives of the Company;
(v) the failure by the Company to continue in effect any equity compensation plan in which the Participant participates immediately prior to the Change in Control, unless a substantially equivalent alternative compensation arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has been provided to the Participant, or the failure by the Company to continue the Participant's participation in any such equity compensation plan on substantially the same basis, in terms of the level of such Participant's participation relative to other participants, as existed immediately prior to the Change in Control excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith and which is remedied by the Company promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Participant;
(vi) Except as required by law, the failure by the Company to continue to provide to the Participant employee benefits substantially equivalent, in the aggregate, to those enjoyed by the Participant under the qualified and nonqualified employee benefit and welfare plans of the Company, including, without limitation, the pension, life insurance, medical, dental, health and accident, disability retirement, and savings plans, in which the Participant was eligible to participate immediately prior to the Change in Control, other than a reduction of such benefits, in the aggregate, of less than 5% of aggregate value of such benefits as of immediately prior to the Change in Control, or the failure by the Company to provide the Participant with the number of paid vacation days to which such Participant is entitled under the Company's vacation policy immediately prior to the Change in Control;
 
(vii) the Company's requiring the Participant to be based at any office or location (x) that is more than forty (40) miles from the principal place of employment immediately prior to the Change in Control and (y) that would increase the Participant's commute by more than twenty (20) miles from the Participant's commute immediately prior to the Change in Control, or the Company's requiring the Participant to travel on Company business to a substantially greater extent than required immediately prior to the Change in Control; or
(viii) any failure by the Company to comply with Article V.
(r) "". As defined in Section 4.4(a).
Gross-Up Payment
(s) "". With respect to any Participant, the higher of (x) the Participant's maximum bonus under the annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant immediately prior to the Change in Control, that if no maximum bonus has been established for such year under such plan, the year immediately preceding the year in which the Change in Control occurs or (y) the Participant's maximum bonus under the annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant in effect at any time after the Change in Control. As used in this definition, the reference to "maximum bonus" shall mean the maximum level under the factors the Compensation Committee may set in its exercise of downward discretion as provided in the MIP.
Maximum Bonus
provided
(t) "". As defined in Section (f)(i).
Outstanding Company Common Stock
(u) "". As defined in Section (f)(i).
Outstanding Company Voting Securities
(v) "". An Employee who meets the eligibility requirements of Section 3.1.
Participant
(w) "". The 55th day immediately following the Date of Termination, or such later date as required by Section 4.6. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the event that either (i) the Participant's Date of Termination occurs prior to the applicable Change in Control in accordance with Section 4.1, (ii) the Date of Termination occurs subsequent to a Change in Control but the applicable Change in Control does not constitute a "change in the ownership or effective control" of the Company or "a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company (each as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code and the regulations thereunder as in effect from time to time) or (iii) the Date of Termination occurs subsequent to the second anniversary of the Change of Control, then the Payment Date means the first business day that is more than six months following the Participant's Date of Termination (or, if the Participant dies during such six-month period, the Participant's death). Interest shall accrue on any amounts payable on the date set forth in the immediately preceding sentence from the Date of Termination at the applicable federal rate provided for in Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code in effect on the Date of Termination.
Payment Date
(x) "". The Teradata Corporation Change in Control Severance Plan.
Plan
 
(y) "". The committee which shall have full power and authority to administer the Plan and may delegate to one or more officers and/or Employees of the Company such duties in connection with the administration of the Plan as it may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate. Prior to a Change in Control, the Plan Committee shall consist of the members of the Compensation Committee; , that any time prior to a Change in Control, the Plan Committee may designate Incumbent Board members or individuals who were officers of the Company as of immediately prior to the Change in Control ("") to serve as the Plan Committee following the Change in Control. Once designated by the Plan Committee prior to a Change in Control to serve following a Change in Control, Incumbent Members may not be removed from the Plan Committee following the Change in Control.
Plan Committee
provided, however
Incumbent Members
(z) "". As defined in Section 4.1.
Release
(aa) "". With respect to any Participant, the higher of (x) the Participant's Base Salary as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control and (y) the Participant's highest Base Salary in effect at any time thereafter.
Required Base Salary
(bb) "". With respect to any Participant, the higher of (x) the Participant's maximum award under the SIP or any successor plan for the year immediately prior to the Change in Control, that if no maximum award has been established for such year under such plan, the most recent year preceding the Change in Control in which such an award has been established or (y) the Participant's maximum award under the SIP or any successor plan in effect at any time after the Change in Control.
SIP Maximum Award
provided
(cc) "". With respect to any Participant, the higher of (x) the Participant's target award under the SIP or any successor plan for the year immediately prior to the Change in Control, that if no target award has been established for such year under such plan, the most recent year preceding the Change in Control in which such an award has been established or (y) the Participant's target award under the SIP or any successor plan in effect at any time after the Change in Control.
SIP Target Award
provided
(dd) "". The Separation and Distribution Agreement by and between the Company and NCR Corporation.
Separation Agreement
(ee) "". The benefits payable in accordance with Section 4.2 of the Plan.
Separation Benefit
(ff) "". With respect to any Participant, the higher of (x) the Participant's target bonus under the annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant immediately prior to the Change in Control, that if no target bonus has been established for such year under such plans, the year immediately preceding the year in which the Change in Control occurs or (y) the Participant's target bonus under the annual bonus plan applicable to the Participant in effect at any time after the Change in Control. As used in this definition, the reference to "target bonus" shall mean the target level under the "Management Incentive Objectives" or other factors the Compensation Committee may set in its exercise of downward discretion as provided in the MIP.
Target Bonus
provided
(gg) "". As defined in Section 3.1.
Tier Level
 
(hh) "". As defined in Section 4.4(b).
Underpayment
(ii) "". For Participants designated as Tier Level I, three years following the Date of Termination. For Participants designated as Tier Level II, two years. For Participants designated as Tier Level III, one year.
Welfare Benefit Period
3.1 . Each Employee who is designated by the Board as a Section 16 Officer shall be eligible to be a Participant in the Plan. The Plan Committee may also designate any other Employee as a Participant. In the event the Plan Committee designates certain Participants by job title, position, function or responsibilities, an Employee who is appointed to such a position after the Effective Date of this Plan shall be eligible as a Participant upon the date he or she begins his or her duties in such position, unless otherwise determined by the Plan Committee. The Plan Committee shall designate each Participant in the Plan as a member of a specific tier for the purposes of calculating the Participants' Separation Benefit under this Plan ("").
Participation
Tier Level
3.2 . Subject to Article VI, an Employee shall cease to be a Participant in the Plan when he or she (i) ceases to be an Employee or (ii) ceases to be designated by the Board as a Section 16 officer or (iii) ceases to be designated by the Board as a Participant (unless, in the case of clause (ii), the Plan Committee specifically determines that the Employee shall remain a Participant). Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant who is entitled, as a result of ceasing to be an Employee under the circumstances set forth in Section 4.1, to payment of a Separation Benefit or any other amounts under the Plan shall remain a Participant in the Plan until the full amount of the Separation Benefit and any other amounts payable under the Plan have been paid to the Participant.
Duration of Participation
4.1 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.4 with respect to the benefits thereunder, which shall be provided regardless of whether a Participant incurs a termination of employment, and subject to the restrictions of Section 4.6, a Participant shall be entitled to receive from the Company a Separation Benefit in the amount provided in Section 4.2 if, within the two year period following the Change in Control, (i) a Participant's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause (other than by reason of the Participant's death or Disability) or (ii) a Participant's employment is terminated by the Participant for Good Reason; , that if the termination described in clause (i), or the event constituting Good Reason giving rise to the termination described in clause (ii), as applicable, occurs within the six-month period ending on the date of such Change in Control, but the Participant can reasonably demonstrate that such termination or event, as applicable, occurred at the request of a third party who had taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control, the termination or event, as applicable, will be treated for all purposes of this Plan as having occurred immediately following the Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall any benefits be provided to a Participant under this Plan unless the Participant has executed a restrictive covenant and release agreement in the form attached hereto as (the "Release"), the Participant has not revoked the Release, and the Release has become effective and irrevocable in accordance with its terms by the Payment Date.
Right to Separation Benefit
provided
Exhibit A
 
4.2 .
Separation Benefits
(a) In General. If a Participant's employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her to a Separation Benefit as provided in Section 4.1, the Company shall pay such Participant a lump sum in cash, within thirty (30) days following the Payment Date, a Separation Benefit equal to the product of (a) the sum of the Participant's Required Base Salary and the Participant's Bonus Amount and (b) the Separation Multiplier shown in Table 1 as determined by the Participant's designated Tier Level.
 
(b) . In addition, if a Participant's employment is terminated in circumstances entitling him or her to a Separation Benefit as provided in Section 4.1, the Company shall pay such Participant a lump sum in cash in an amount equal to the sum of:
Accrued Incentive Pay
(i) the amount of any unpaid annual bonus under the MIP or any successor plan and award under the SIP or any successor plan for any completed performance period, which amount shall be paid in accordance with the terms of the applicable plan document or award agreement; plus
(ii) the product of (x) the Bonus Amount and (y) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the bonus year in which the Date of Termination occurs through the Date of Termination and the denominator of which is 365, which amount shall be paid within thirty (30) days following the Payment Date.
(c) .
Welfare and Other Benefits
(i) In addition, during the Welfare Benefit Period or such longer period as may be provided by the terms of the appropriate plan, program, practice or policy, the Company shall provide to a Participant entitled to a Separation Benefit, continued health care, dental and life insurance for the Participant and/or the Participant's family at least equal to, and at the same cost to the Participant and/or the Participant's family, as those that would have been provided to them in accordance with the plans, programs, practices and policies in effect as of immediately prior to a Change in Control or, if more favorable to the Participant, as in effect generally at any time thereafter with respect to other peer executives of the Company and its affiliates and their families; , that notwithstanding the Welfare Benefit Period, such medical and other welfare benefits shall terminate upon such time as the Participant becomes reemployed with another employer and is eligible to receive such benefits
provided, however
 
under another employer provided plan. The Participant's entitlement to COBRA continuation coverage under Section 4980B of the Code ("") shall not be offset by the provision of benefits under this Section and the period of COBRA Coverage shall commence at the end of the Welfare Benefit Period, during which the Participant receives benefits under this Section).
COBRA Coverage
(ii) A Participant entitled to a Separation Benefit will also be entitled to participate in the Company's outplacement assistance program, provided by the Company's selected outplacement services firm, as in effect under the Company's policy applicable to the Participant on the date of the Change in Control, for a period of one (1) year following his or her Date of Termination.
(iii) In addition, to the extent a Participant entitled to a Separation Benefit was eligible to receive financial counseling benefits under the Company's policy in effect at the time of a Change in Control, such Participant shall be entitled to receive such financial counseling benefits for a period of one (1) year following his or her Date of Termination.
(iv) The continued benefits described in this Section that are taxable benefits (and that are not disability pay or death benefit plans within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) are intended to comply, to the maximum extent possible, with the exception to Section 409A of the Code set forth in Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v) of the Treasury Regulations. To the extent that any of those benefits either do not qualify for that exception, or are provided beyond the applicable time periods set forth in Section 1.409A-1(b)(9)(v) of the Treasury Regulations, then they shall be subject to the following additional rules: (i) any reimbursement of eligible expenses shall be paid within 30 days following the Participant's written request for reimbursement; provided that the Participant provides written notice no later than 60 days prior to the last day of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the expense was incurred; (ii) the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefits provided, during any calendar year shall not affect the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement, or in-kind benefits to be provided, during any other calendar year; and (iii) the right to reimbursement or in-kind benefits shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
4.3 . The Separation Benefit provided pursuant to Section 4.2 above shall be provided in addition to, and not in lieu of, all other accrued or vested or earned but deferred compensation, rights, options or other benefits which may be owed to a Participant upon or following termination, including, but not limited to accrued vacation or sick pay, reimbursement for business expenses previously incurred, amounts or benefits payable under any bonus or other compensation plans, the MIP, the SIP, stock option plan, stock ownership plan, stock purchase plan, life insurance plan, health plan, disability plan or similar or successor plan, other than any severance plan, program, agreement or arrangement , unless such plan, program, agreement or arrangement has a specific reference to this Section. Stock options and other stock awards under the Teradata 2007 Stock Incentive Plan or comparable plan will vest and become payable or exercisable upon the occurrence of a Change in Control to the extent provided in that plan.
Other Benefits Payable
 
4.4 .
Tax Gross-Up
(a) Anything in this Plan to the contrary notwithstanding and except as set forth below, in the event it shall be determined that any Payment would be subject to the Excise Tax, then the Participant shall be entitled to receive an additional payment (the "") in an amount such that, after payment by the Participant of all taxes (and any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes), including, without limitation, any income taxes (and any interest and penalties imposed with respect thereto) and Excise Tax imposed upon the Gross-Up Payment, the Participant retains an amount of the Gross-Up Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payments. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section, if it shall be determined that the Participant is entitled to the Gross-Up Payment, but that the Parachute Value of all Payments does not exceed 110% of the Safe Harbor Amount, then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Participant and the amounts payable under this Plan shall be reduced so that the Parachute Value of all Payments, in the aggregate, equals the Safe Harbor Amount. The reduction of the amounts payable hereunder, if applicable, shall be made by first reducing the payments under Section 4.2(a), and then any payments due under Section 4.2(b)(ii), and then any benefits due under Section 4.2(c) (with benefits or payments in any group having different payment terms being reduced on a pro-rata basis). For purposes of reducing the Payments to the Safe Harbor Amount, only amounts payable under the Sections of this Plan identified in the immediately preceding sentence (and no other Payments) shall be reduced. If the reduction of the amount payable under this Plan would not result in a reduction of the Parachute Value of all Payments to the Safe Harbor Amount, no amounts payable under the Plan shall be reduced pursuant to this Section. Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Company's obligations under this Section shall not be conditioned upon the Participant's termination of employment. By way of example, in the event of a Change in Control which does not result in a Participant's termination of employment or entitlement to a Separation Benefit under this Plan, but which causes the accelerated vesting of such Participant's stock options under a separate plan giving rise to an Excise Tax, the Company's obligations under this Section shall apply with respect to such accelerated vesting.
Gross-Up Payment
(b) Subject to the provisions of Section 4.4(c), all determinations required to be made under this Section, including whether and when a Gross-Up Payment is required, the amount of such Gross-Up Payment and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determination, shall be made by the Company's then current independent outside auditors, or such other nationally recognized certified public accounting firm as may be designated by the Plan Committee immediately prior to a Change in Control (the ""). The Accounting Firm shall provide detailed supporting calculations both to the Company and the Participant within fifteen business days of the receipt of notice from the Participant that there has been a Payment or such earlier time as is requested by the Company. In the event that the Accounting Firm is serving as accountant or auditor for the individual, entity or group effecting the Change in Control, the Plan Committee may appoint another nationally recognized accounting firm to make the determinations required hereunder (which accounting firm shall then be referred to as the Accounting Firm hereunder). All fees and expenses of the Accounting Firm shall be borne solely by the Company. Any Gross-Up Payment, as determined pursuant to this Section, shall be paid by the Company to the Participant within five days of the receipt of the Accounting Firm's determination. Any determination by the Accounting Firm shall be binding upon the Company and the Participant. As a result of uncertainty in the application of Section 4999 of the Code at the time of the initial determination by the Accounting Firm hereunder, it is possible that
Accounting Firm
 
Gross-Up Payments that will not have been made by the Company should have been made (the ""), consistent with the calculations required to be made hereunder. In the event the Company exhausts its remedies pursuant to Section 4.4(c) and the Participant thereafter is required to make a payment of any Excise Tax, the Accounting Firm shall determine the amount of the Underpayment that has occurred and any such Underpayment shall be promptly paid by the Company to or for the benefit of the Participant.
Underpayment
(c) The Participant shall notify the Company in writing of any claim by the Internal Revenue Service that, if successful, would require the payment by the Company of the Gross-Up Payment. Such notification shall be given as soon as practicable, but no later than ten business days after the Participant is informed in writing of such claim. The Participant shall apprise the Company of the nature of such claim and the date on which such claim is requested to be paid. The Participant shall not pay such claim prior to the expiration of the 30-day period following the date on which the Participant gives such notice to the Company (or such shorter period ending on the date that any payment of taxes with respect to such claim is due). If the Company notifies the Participant in writing prior to the expiration of such period that the Company desires to contest such claim, the Participant shall:
(i) give the Company any information reasonably requested by the Company relating to such claim,
(ii) take such action in connection with contesting such claim as the Company shall reasonably request in writing from time to time, including, without limitation, accepting legal representation with respect to such claim by an attorney reasonably selected by the Company,
(iii) cooperate with the Company in good faith in order effectively to contest such claim, and
(iv) permit the Company to participate in any proceedings relating to such claim;
, that the Company shall bear and pay directly all costs and expenses (including additional interest and penalties) incurred in connection with such contest and shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, for any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest and penalties) imposed as a result of such representation and payment of costs and expenses. Without limitation on the foregoing provisions of this Section, the Company shall control all proceedings taken in connection with such contest and, at its sole discretion, may pursue or forgo any and all administrative appeals, proceedings, hearings and conferences with the applicable taxing authority in respect of such claim and may, at its sole discretion, either pay the tax claimed to the appropriate taxing authority on behalf of the Participant and direct the Participant to sue for a refund or contest the claim in any permissible manner, and the Participant agrees to prosecute such contest to a determination before any administrative tribunal, in a court of initial jurisdiction and in one or more appellate courts, as the Company shall determine; , that, if the Company pays such claim and directs the Participant to sue for a refund, the Company shall indemnify and hold the Participant harmless, on an after-tax basis, from any Excise Tax or income tax (including interest or penalties) imposed with respect to such
provided, however
provided, however
 
payment or with respect to any imputed income in connection with such payment; and , that any extension of the statute of limitations relating to payment of taxes for the taxable year of the Participant with respect to which such contested amount is claimed to be due is limited solely to such contested amount. Furthermore, the Company's control of the contest shall be limited to issues with respect to which the Gross-Up Payment would be payable hereunder, and the Participant shall be entitled to settle or contest, as the case may be, any other issue raised by the Internal Revenue Service or any other taxing authority.
provided, further
(d) If, after the receipt by the Participant of a Gross-Up Payment or payment by the Company of an amount on the Participant's behalf pursuant to Section 4.4(c), the Participant becomes entitled to receive any refund with respect to the Excise Tax to which such Gross-Up Payment relates or with respect to such claim, the Participant shall (subject to the Company's complying with the requirements of Section 4.4(c), if applicable) promptly pay to the Company the amount of such refund (together with any interest paid or credited thereon after taxes applicable thereto). If, after payment by the Company of an amount on the Participant's behalf pursuant to Section 4.4(c), a determination is made that the Participant shall not be entitled to any refund with respect to such claim and the Company does not notify the Participant in writing of its intent to contest such denial of refund prior to the expiration of thirty days after such determination, then the amount of such payment shall offset, to the extent thereof, the amount of Gross-Up Payment required to be paid.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, the Company may, in its sole discretion, withhold and pay over to the Internal Revenue Service or any other applicable taxing authority, for the benefit of the Participant, all or any portion of any Gross-Up Payment, and the Participant hereby consents to such withholding. Moreover, in order to comply with Section 409A of the Code, the Company and the Participant shall take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that any Gross-Up Payment, Underpayment or other payment or reimbursement made to the Participant pursuant to this Section will be paid or reimbursed on the earlier of (i) the date specified for payment under this Section, or (ii) December 31st of the year following the year in which the applicable taxes are remitted or, in the case of reimbursement of expenses incurred due to a tax audit or litigation to which there is no remittance of taxes, the end of the calendar year following the year in which the audit is completed or there is a final and nonappealable settlement or other resolution of the litigation in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.
(f) . The following terms shall have the following meanings for purposes of this Section.
Definitions
(i) "Excise Tax" shall mean the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, together with any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such excise tax.
(ii) "Parachute Value" of a Payment shall mean the present value as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code of the portion of such Payment that constitutes a "parachute payment" under Section 280G(b)(2), as determined by the Accounting Firm for purposes of determining whether and to what extent the Excise Tax will apply to such Payment.
 
(iii) A "Payment" shall mean any payment or distribution in the nature of compensation (within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) to or for the benefit of the Participant, whether paid or payable pursuant to this Plan or otherwise.
(iv) The "Safe Harbor Amount" means 2.99 times the Participant's "base amount," within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code.
(v) "Value" of a Payment shall mean the economic present value of a Payment as of the date of the change of control for purposes of Section 280G of the Code, as determined by the Accounting Firm using the discount rate required by Section 280G(d)(4) of the Code.
4.5 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 4.2(c), the Company's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Plan and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other claim, right or action that the Company may have against a Participant or others. In no event shall a Participant be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts payable to the Participant under any of the provisions of this Plan, and such amounts shall not be reduced whether or not the Participant obtains other employment.
Payment Obligations Absolute
4.6 . For purposes of this Plan, "termination of employment" or words or phrases to that effect shall mean a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article IV, if the Participant is a "specified employee," as determined under the Company's policy for identifying specified employees on the Date of Termination, then to the extent required in order to comply with Section 409A of the Code, all payments, benefits or reimbursements paid or provided under this Plan that constitute a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, that are provided as a result of a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and that would otherwise be paid or provided during the first six months following such Date of Termination shall be accumulated through and paid or provided (together with interest from the Date of Termination at the applicable federal rate under Section 7872(f)(2)(A) of the Code in effect on the Date of Termination), on the first business day that is more than six months following the Participant's Date of Termination (or, if the Participant dies during such six-month period, within 30 days after the Participant's death).
Section 409A
This Plan shall bind any successor of or to the Company, its assets or its businesses (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise), in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be obligated under this Plan if no succession had taken place. In the case of any transaction in which a successor would not by the foregoing provision or by operation of law be bound by this Plan, the Company shall require such successor expressly and unconditionally to assume and agree to perform the Company's obligations under this Plan, in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such succession had taken place. The term "," as used in this Plan, shall mean the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor or assignee to the business or assets which by reason hereof becomes bound by this Plan.
Company
 
6.1 . The Plan shall continue in effect from the Effective Date through December 31, 2009; , that the Plan shall renew automatically for successive one-year periods unless the Board determines, through a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the entire membership of the Board no later than ninety (90) days prior to the expiration of the then current term, that the Plan shall not be extended, in which event the Plan shall terminate at the expiration of the then current term. In the event that a Change of Control occurs within one year following a termination, the Plan shall not so terminate. If a Change in Control occurs, this Plan shall continue in full force and effect and shall not terminate or expire until after all Participants who become entitled to any payments hereunder shall have received such payments in full and all adjustments required to be made pursuant to Section 4.4 have been made.
Duration
provided, however
6.2 . The Plan may be amended in any respect by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board; , in the event that a Change in Control occurs within one year following an amendment to the Plan that would adversely affect the rights or potential rights of Participants, the amendment will not be effective. In anticipation of or on or following a Change in Control, the Plan shall no longer be subject to amendment, change, substitution, deletion, revocation or termination in any respect which adversely affects the rights of Participants without the consent of each Participant so affected. For the avoidance of doubt, removal of a Participant as a Participant (other than as a result of the Participant ceasing to be an Employee) or a decrease in the Participant's Tier Level shall be deemed to be an amendment of the Plan which adversely affects the right of the Participant.
Amendment and Termination
provided, however
6.3 . The form of any amendment or termination of the Plan shall be a written instrument signed by a duly authorized officer or officers of the Company, certifying that the amendment or termination has been approved by the Board. An amendment of the Plan in accordance with the terms hereof shall automatically effect a corresponding amendment to all Participants' rights and benefits hereunder. A termination of the Plan shall be in accordance with the terms hereof automatically effect a termination of all Participants' rights and benefits hereunder.
Form of Amendment
7.1 . Any interpretation or construction of, or determination or action by, the Plan Committee with respect to the Plan and its administration shall be binding upon any and all parties and persons affected thereby, subject to the exclusive appeal procedure set forth herein, except for any interpretation or construction of, or determination or action by, the Plan Committee relating to whether a Participant has "" to resign, which shall not be determined by the Plan Committee but instead shall be subject to de novo review. If any person eligible to receive benefits under the Plan, or claiming to be so eligible, believes he or she is entitled to benefits in an amount greater than those which he or she has received (a ""),
Determinations of the Plan Committee; Dispute Resolution
Good Reason
Claimant
 
he or she may file a claim in writing with the Teradata Pension and Benefits Committee (""). The PBC shall review the claim and, within 90 days after the claim is filed, shall give written notice to the Claimant of the decision. If the claim is denied, the notice shall give the reason for the denial, the pertinent provisions of the Plan on which the denial is based, a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and an explanation of the claim review procedure under the Plan. Any person who has had a claim for benefits denied by the PBC shall have the right to request review by the Plan Committee. Such request must be in writing, and must be made within sixty days after such person is advised of the denial of benefits. If written request for review is not received within such sixty day period, the Claimant shall forfeit his or her right to review. The Plan Committee shall review claims that are appealed, and may hold a hearing if it deems necessary, and shall issue a written notice of the final decision. Such notice shall include specific reasons for the decision and specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based. The decision shall be final and binding upon the Claimant and the Plan Committee and all other persons involved. Any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Plan and not resolved through the foregoing process shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in the city of the Company's headquarters, in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect. In addition, and as an exclusive alternative to the filing of a claim with the PBC, a Claimant may seek to resolve a dispute or controversy by filing a claim in arbitration without first seeking the review of the PBC or Plan Committee. The arbitrator may award only those damages which are consistent with the terms of this Plan and shall not have authority to award punitive damages. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction.
PBC
7.2 . If a Participant institutes any legal action in seeking to obtain or enforce, or is required to defend in any legal action the validity or enforceability of, any right or benefit provided by this Plan, the Company shall reimburse the Participant (within 10 days following the Company's receipt of an invoice from the Participant) for all reasonable costs and expenses relating to such legal action that are incurred at any time from the Effective Date through the Participant's remaining lifetime or, if longer, through the 20th anniversary of the Effective Date, including reasonable attorney's fees and expenses incurred by such Participant, unless a court or other finder of fact having jurisdiction thereof makes a determination that the Participant's position was frivolous. In no event shall the Participant be required to reimburse the Company for any of the costs and expenses relating to such legal action. The Company's obligations under this Section shall survive the termination of this Plan. In order to comply with Section 409A of the Code, in no event shall the payments by the Company under this Section be made later than the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such fees and expenses were incurred, provided, that the Participant shall have submitted an invoice for such fees and expenses at least 30 days before the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which such fees and expenses were incurred. The amount of such legal fees and expenses that the Company is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the legal fees and expenses that the Company is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and the Participant's right to have the Company pay such legal fees and expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit.
Indemnification
 
7.3 . This Plan does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on the Participant or the Company any obligation to retain the Participant as an Employee, to change the status of the Participant's employment, or to change the Company's policies or those of its subsidiaries' regarding termination of employment.
Employment Status
7.4 . The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of the Plan shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of the Plan, which shall remain in full force and effect, and any prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Validity and Severability
7.5 . It is intended that the payments and benefits provided under this Plan shall either be exempt from the application of, or comply with, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed in a manner that effects such intent. If any compensation or benefits provided by this Plan may result in the application of Section 409A of the Code, the Company shall modify the Plan in the least restrictive manner necessary in order to exclude such compensation from the definition of "deferred compensation" within the meaning of such Section 409A or in order to comply with the provisions of Section 409A, other applicable provision(s) of the Code and/or any rules, regulations or other regulatory guidance issued under such statutory provisions and without any diminution in the value of the payments to the Participants. Although the Company will use its best efforts to avoid the imposition of taxation, interest and penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the tax treatment of the benefits provided under this Plan is not warranted or guaranteed. Neither the Company, its subsidiaries nor their respective directors, officers, employees or advisers shall be held liable for any taxes, interest, penalties or other monetary amounts owed by a Participant (or any other individual claiming a benefit through the Participant) as a result of this Plan.
Section 409A Savings Clause
7.6 . The validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan shall in all respects be governed by the laws of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of law, and to the extent not preempted by ERISA.
Governing Law
7.7 . The Compensation Committee may establish a trust with a bank trustee, for the purpose of paying benefits under this Plan. If so established, the trust shall be a grantor trust subject to the claims of the Company's creditors and shall, immediately prior to a Change in Control, be funded in cash or common stock of the Company or such other assets as the Compensation Committee deems appropriate with an amount equal to 120 percent of the aggregate benefits payable under this Plan (including without limitation any required Gross-Up Payments) assuming that all Participants in the Plan incurred a termination of employment entitling them to Separation Benefits immediately following the Change in Control, , that, in the event that such funding would result in the imposition of taxes and penalties under Section 409A of the Code with respect to any current or former Section 16 officers or any "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the trust shall not be funded with respect to such individuals.
Trust
provided
7.8 . The Company may withhold from any amount payable or benefit provided under this Plan such Federal, state, local, foreign and other taxes as are required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
Withholding
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned hereby certifies that this amended Plan was approved and adopted by the Board on October 7, 2008 and, therefore, Teradata has caused this amended Plan to be executed this 7th day of October, 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned parties have executed this Agreement, which includes a release.
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
SECTION 1. Purpose; Definitions
The purpose of this Plan is to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining and motivating officers, employees, directors and/or consultants and to provide the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates with a long-term incentive plan that (a) grants new Awards to provide incentives directly linked to stockholder value and (b) provides a means to assume and govern other awards pursuant to the adjustment of awards granted under any NCR Long Term Incentive Plan (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement) in accordance with the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement ("Adjusted Awards"). Certain terms used herein have definitions given to them in the first place in which they are used. In addition, for purposes of this Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below:
(a) "" means a corporation or other entity controlled by, controlling or under common control with, the Company.
Affiliate
(b) "" means the New York Stock Exchange or such other securities exchange as may at the applicable time be the principal market for the Common Stock.
Applicable Exchange
(c) "" means an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Units or Other Stock-Based Award granted pursuant to the terms of this Plan.
Award
(d) "" means a written document or agreement setting forth the terms and conditions of a specific Award.
Award Agreement
(e) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(f) "" means, unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, (i) "Cause" as defined in any Individual Agreement to which the applicable Participant is a party, or (ii) if there is no such Individual Agreement or if it does not define Cause: (A) conviction of the Participant for committing a felony under federal law or the law of the state in which such action occurred, (B) dishonesty in the course of fulfilling the Participant's employment duties, (C) failure on the part of the Participant to perform substantially such Participant's employment duties in any material respect, (D) a material violation of the Company's ethics and compliance program, or (E) before a Change in Control, such other events as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the general rule of Section 2(c), following a Change in Control, any determination by the Committee as to whether "Cause" exists shall be subject to de novo review.
Cause
(g) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10(b).
Change in Control
(h) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto.
Code
(i) "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency.
Commission
(j) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Committee
(k) "" means common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
(l) "" means Teradata Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Company
(m) "" means, unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement (i) "Disability" as defined in any Individual Agreement to which the Participant is a party, (ii) if there is no such Individual Agreement or it does not define "Disability," (A) permanent and total disability as determined under the Company's long-term disability plan applicable to the Participant, or (B) if there is no such plan applicable to the Participant, "Disability" as determined by the Committee. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Disability shall mean Permanent and Total Disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and, with respect to all Awards, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code, "disability" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
Disability
(n) "" means a Subsidiary's or Affiliate's ceasing to be a Subsidiary or Affiliate for any reason (including, without limitation, as a result of a public offering, or a spinoff or sale by the Company, of the stock of the Subsidiary or Affiliate) or a sale of a division of the Company and its Affiliates.
Disaffiliation
(o) "" means directors, officers, employees, contractors and consultants of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, and prospective employees, contractors and consultants who have accepted offers of employment, contract services or consultancy from the Company or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
Eligible Individuals
(p) "" means the Employee Benefits Agreement by and between NCR Corporation and the Company dated as of September 21, 2007.
Employee Benefits Agreement
(q) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto.
Exchange Act
(r) "" means, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the Applicable Exchange on the date of measurement, or if Shares were not traded on the Applicable Exchange on such measurement date, then on the next preceding date on which Shares were traded, all as reported by such source as the Committee may select. If the Common Stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Committee in its good faith discretion.
Fair Market Value
(s) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
Free-Standing SAR
(t) "" means any Award other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right or dividend equivalent right.
Full Value Award
(u) "" means (i) the date on which the Committee by resolution selects an Eligible Individual to receive a grant of an Award and determines the number of Shares to be subject to such Award, or (ii) such later date as the Committee shall provide in such resolution.
Grant Date
(v) "" means any Option that is designated in the applicable Award Agreement as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, and that in fact so qualifies.
Incentive Stock Option
 
(w) "" means an employment, consulting or similar agreement between a Participant and the Company or one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
Individual Agreement
(x) "" means any Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Option
(y) "" means an Award granted under Section 5.
Option
(z) "" means Awards of Common Stock and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based upon, Common Stock, including (without limitation), unrestricted stock, dividend equivalents, and convertible debentures.
Other Stock-Based Award
(aa) "" means an Eligible Individual to whom an Award is or has been granted.
Participant
(bb) "" means the performance goals established by the Committee in connection with the grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units or Other Stock-Based Awards. In the case of Qualified Performance-Based Awards, (i) such goals shall be based on the attainment of specified levels of one or more of the following measures: revenues; revenue growth; product revenue growth; earnings (including earnings before taxes, earnings before interest and taxes or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); earnings per share; operating income (including non-pension operating income); pre- or after-tax income (before or after allocation of corporate overhead and bonus); cash flow (before or after dividends); cash flow per share (before or after dividends); gross margin; return on equity; return on capital (including return on total capital or return on invested capital); cash flow return on investment; return on assets or operating assets; economic value added (or an equivalent metric); stock price appreciation; total stockholder return (measured in terms of stock price appreciation and dividend growth); cost control; gross profit; operating profit; cash generation; unit volume; stock price; market share; sales; asset quality; cost saving levels; marketing-spending efficiency; core non-interest income; debt reductions; stockholder equity; regulatory achievements; implementation, completion or attainment of measurable objectives with respect to research, development, products or projects; recruiting and maintaining personnel; or change in working capital with respect to the Company or any one or more subsidiaries, divisions, business units or business segments of the Company either in absolute terms or relative to the performance of one or more other companies or an index covering multiple companies and (ii) such Performance Goals shall be set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Performance Goals
(cc) "" means that period established by the Committee at the time any Performance Unit is granted or at any time thereafter during which any Performance Goals specified by the Committee with respect to such Award are to be measured.
Performance Period
(dd) "" means any Award granted under Section 8 of a unit valued by reference to a designated amount of property other than Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, upon achievement of such Performance Goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish at the time of such grant or thereafter.
Performance Unit
 
(ee) "" means this Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as set forth herein and as hereafter amended from time to time.
Plan
(ff) "" means an Award intended to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, as provided in Section 11.
Qualified Performance-Based Award
(gg) "" means an Award granted under Section 6.
Restricted Stock
(hh) "" means an Award granted under Section 7.
Restricted Stock Units
(ii) "" means the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code that is set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code.
Section 162(m) Exemption
(jj) "" means any manager of the Company or any Affiliate holding a position at a salary grade of 15 or higher or any future grade that is the equivalent thereof.
Senior Manager
(kk) "" means a share of Common Stock.
Share
(ll) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
Stock Appreciation Right
(mm) "" means any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity during any period in which at least a 50% voting or profits interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or any successor to the Company.
Subsidiary
(nn) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
Tandem SAR
(oo) "" means the maximum period during which an Option or Stock Appreciation Right may remain outstanding, subject to earlier termination upon Termination of Employment or otherwise, as specified in the applicable Award Agreement.
Term
(pp) "" means, unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, the termination of the applicable Participant's employment with, or performance of services for, the Company and any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, (i) if a Participant's employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates but such Participant continues to provide services to the Company and its Affiliates in a non-employee capacity, such change in status shall not be deemed a Termination of Employment and (ii) a Participant employed by, or performing services for, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate or a division of the Company and its Affiliates shall be deemed to incur a Termination of Employment if, as a result of a Disaffiliation, such Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division ceases to be a Subsidiary, Affiliate or division, as the case may be, and the Participant does not immediately thereafter become an employee of, or service provider for, the Company or another Subsidiary or Affiliate. Temporary absences from employment because of illness, vacation or leave of absence and transfers among the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall not be considered Terminations of Employment. For the avoidance of doubt, except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreements relating to any Adjusted Awards, the Separation shall not constitute a Termination of Employment for purposes of any Adjusted Award. Notwithstanding the above, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code, the term Termination of Employment shall mean a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
Termination of Employment
 
SECTION 2. Administration
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as the Board may from time to time designate (the "Committee"), which shall be composed of not less than two directors, and shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Committee shall, subject to Section 11, have plenary authority to grant Awards pursuant to the terms of the Plan to Eligible Individuals. Among other things, the Committee shall have the authority, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Employee Benefits Agreement (including the terms of the Adjusted Award):
Committee
(i) to select the Eligible Individuals to whom Awards may from time to time be granted;
(ii) to determine whether and to what extent Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, Other Stock-Based Awards, or any combination thereof, are to be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
(iv) to determine the terms and conditions of each Award granted hereunder, based on such factors as the Committee shall determine;
(v) subject to Section 12, to modify, amend or adjust the terms and conditions of any Award;
(vi) to adopt, alter and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices governing the Plan as it shall from time to time deem advisable;
(vii) to interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan and any Award issued under the Plan (and any agreement relating thereto);
(viii) to determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances cash, Shares and other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under this Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Participant;
(ix) to accelerate the vesting or lapse of restrictions of any outstanding Award, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines;
(x) to decide all other matters that must be determined in connection with an Award;
(xi) to establish any "blackout" period that the Committee in its sole discretion deems necessary or advisable; and
(xii) to otherwise administer the Plan.
(b) .
Procedures
(i) The Committee may act only by a majority of its members then in office, except that the Committee may, except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the listing standards of the Applicable Exchange and subject to Section 11, allocate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members and may delegate all or any part of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it, including to the Company's chief executive officer or one or more directors or executive officers the authority to grant Awards to Eligible Individuals who are not officers of the Company.
 
(ii) Subject to Section 11(c), any authority granted to the Committee may also be exercised by the full Board. To the extent that any permitted action taken by the Board conflicts with action taken by the Committee, the Board action shall control.
(c) . Subject to Section 1(f), any determination made by the Committee or by an appropriately delegated officer pursuant to delegated authority under the provisions of the Plan with respect to any Award shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee or such delegate at the time of the grant of the Award or, unless in contravention of any express term of the Plan, at any time thereafter. All decisions made by the Committee or any appropriately delegated officer pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company, Participants, and Eligible Individuals.
Discretion of Committee
(d) . Subject to Section 5(d), the Committee shall have full power and authority to determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances any Award shall be canceled or suspended. In particular, but without limitation, all outstanding Awards to any Participant may be canceled if the Participant, without the consent of the Committee, while employed by the Company or after termination of such employment, becomes associated with, employed by, renders services to, or owns any interest in (other than any nonsubstantial interest, as determined by the Committee), any business that is in competition with the Company or with any business in which the Company has a substantial interest, as determined by the Committee or any one or more Senior Managers or committee of Senior Managers to whom the authority to make such determination is delegated by the Committee.
Cancellation or Suspension
(e) . The terms and conditions of each Award, as determined by the Committee, shall be set forth in a written (or electronic) Award Agreement, which shall be delivered to the Participant receiving such Award upon, or as promptly as is reasonably practicable following, the grant of such Award. The effectiveness of an Award shall be subject to the Award Agreement's being signed by the Company and/or the Participant receiving the Award unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement. Award Agreements may be amended only in accordance with Section 12 hereof.
Award Agreements
SECTION 3. Common Stock Subject to Plan
(a) . The maximum number of Shares that may be granted pursuant to Awards under the Plan shall be 20 million. The maximum number of Shares that may be granted pursuant to Options intended to be Incentive Stock Options shall be 5 million Shares and shall not be affected by the provisions of Section 3(c)(ii). Shares subject to an Award under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares.
Plan Maximums
(b) . No Participant may be granted Options and Free-Standing SARs covering in excess of 2 million Shares, or Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units or other award subject to Performance Goals covering in excess of 750,000 Shares, during a 36 month period.
Individual Limits
(c) .
Rules for Calculating Shares Delivered
(i) With respect to Awards other than Adjusted Awards, to the extent that any Award is forfeited, or any Option and the related Tandem SAR (if any) or Free-Standing SAR terminates, expires or lapses without being exercised, or any Award is settled for cash, the Shares subject to such Awards not delivered as a result thereof shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.
 
(ii) With respect to Awards other than Adjusted Awards, if the exercise price of any Option and/or the tax withholding obligations relating to any Award are satisfied by delivering Shares (either actually or through attestation) or withholding Shares relating to such Award or if any Shares subject to an Award shall otherwise not be delivered in settlement of such Award (including upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right), only the net number of Shares received by the Participant shall be deemed to have been issued for purposes of the maximum number of Shares in the first sentence of Section 3(a).
(iii) The provisions of Section 3(c)(i) and 3(c)(ii) shall also apply to Adjusted Awards such that any Shares subject to such awards that are forfeited or terminated, expire, lapse without being exercised or are settled for cash shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.
(d) . In the event of a merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or shares, stock rights offering, liquidation, Disaffiliation, or similar event affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (each, a "Corporate Transaction"), the Committee or the Board may in its discretion make such substitutions or adjustments as it deems appropriate and equitable to (A) the aggregate number and kind of Shares or other securities reserved for issuance and delivery under the Plan, (B) the various maximum limitations set forth in Sections 3(a) and 3(b) upon certain types of Awards and upon the grants to individuals of certain types of Awards, (C) the number and kind of Shares or other securities subject to outstanding Awards; and (D) the exercise price of outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, separation, spinoff, reorganization, extraordinary dividend of cash or other property, share combination, or recapitalization or similar event affecting the capital structure of the Company (each, a "Share Change"), the Committee or the Board shall make such substitutions or adjustments as it deems appropriate and equitable to (A) the aggregate number and kind of Shares or other securities reserved for issuance and delivery under the Plan, (B) the various maximum limitations set forth in Sections 3(a) and 3(b) upon certain types of Awards and upon the grants to individuals of certain types of Awards, (C) the number and kind of Shares or other securities subject to outstanding Awards; and (D) the exercise price of outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. In the case of Corporate Transactions, such adjustments may include, without limitation, (1) the cancellation of outstanding Awards in exchange for payments of cash, property or a combination thereof having an aggregate value equal to the value of such Awards, as determined by the Committee or the Board in its sole discretion (it being understood that in the case of a Corporate Transaction with respect to which stockholders of Common Stock receive consideration other than publicly traded equity securities of the ultimate surviving entity, any such determination by the Committee that the value of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall for this purpose be deemed to equal the excess, if any, of the value of the consideration being paid for each Share pursuant to such Corporate Transaction over the exercise price of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall conclusively be deemed valid), , that in the event of the cancellation of such Awards pursuant to this clause (1), the Awards shall vest in full immediately prior to the consummation of such Corporate Transaction; (2) the substitution of other property (including, without limitation, cash or other securities of the Company and securities of entities other than the Company) for the Shares subject to outstanding Awards; and (3) in connection with any
Adjustment Provision
provided
 
Disaffiliation, arranging for the assumption of Awards, or replacement of Awards with new awards based on other property or other securities (including, without limitation, other securities of the Company and securities of entities other than the Company), by the affected Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division or by the entity that controls such Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division following such Disaffiliation (as well as any corresponding adjustments to Awards that remain based upon Company securities). The Committee may adjust in its sole discretion the Performance Goals applicable to any Awards to reflect any unusual or non-recurring events and other extraordinary items, impact of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, and the cumulative effects of accounting or tax changes, each as defined by generally accepted accounting principles or as identified in the Company's financial statements, notes to the financial statements, management's discussion and analysis or the Company's other SEC filings, that in the case of Performance Goals applicable to any Qualified Performance-Based Awards, such adjustment does not violate Section 162(m) of the Code.
provided
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) any adjustments made pursuant to Section 3(d) to Awards that are considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code shall be made in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; (ii) any adjustments made pursuant to Section 3(d) to Awards that are not considered "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code shall be made in such a manner as to ensure that after such adjustment, the Awards either (A) continue not to be subject to Section 409A of the Code or (B) comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; and (iii) in any event, neither the Committee nor the Board shall have the authority to make any adjustments pursuant to Section 3(d) to the extent the existence of such authority would cause an Award that is not intended to be subject to Section 409A of the Code at the Grant Date to be subject thereto.
Section 409A.
SECTION 4. Eligibility
Awards may be granted under the Plan to Eligible Individuals and, with respect to Adjusted Awards, in accordance with the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement; , , that Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries or parent corporation (within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code) and, with respect to Adjusted Awards that are intended to qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 421 of the Code, in accordance with the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement; that Options or Stock Appreciation Rights that are intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code may be granted only to Eligible Individuals who are providing services to the Company or any corporation or other entity as to which the Company is an "eligible issuer of service recipient stock" (within the meaning of 409A of the Code).
provided
however
provided, further,
SECTION 5. Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) . Options may be of two types: Incentive Stock Options and Nonqualified Options. The Award Agreement for an Option shall indicate whether the Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Option.
Types of Options
(b) . Stock Appreciation Rights may be "Tandem SARs," which are granted in conjunction with an Option, or "Free-Standing SARs," which are not granted in conjunction with an Option. Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant shall be entitled to receive an amount in cash, Shares, or both, in value equal to the product
Types and Nature of Stock Appreciation Rights
 
of (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one Share over the exercise price of the applicable Stock Appreciation Right, multiplied by (ii) the number of Shares in respect of which the Stock Appreciation Right has been exercised. The applicable Award Agreement shall specify whether such payment is to be made in cash or Common Stock or both, or shall reserve to the Committee or the Participant the right to make that determination prior to or upon the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
(c) . A Tandem SAR may be granted at the Grant Date of the related Option. A Tandem SAR shall be exercisable only at such time or times and to the extent that the related Option is exercisable in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5, and shall have the same exercise price as the related Option. A Tandem SAR shall terminate or be forfeited upon the exercise or forfeiture of the related Option, and the related Option shall terminate or be forfeited upon the exercise or forfeiture of the Tandem SAR.
Tandem SARs
(d) . The exercise price per Share subject to an Option or Free-Standing SAR shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement, and shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of the Common Stock on the applicable Grant Date. In no event may any Option or Free-Standing SAR granted under this Plan be amended, other than pursuant to Section 3(d), to decrease the exercise price thereof, be cancelled in conjunction with the grant of any new Option or Free-Standing SAR with a lower exercise price, or otherwise be subject to any action that would be treated, for accounting purposes, as a "repricing" of such Option or Free-Standing SAR, unless such amendment, cancellation, or action is approved by the Company's stockholders.
Exercise Price
(e) . The Term of each Option and each Free-Standing SAR shall be fixed by the Committee, but shall not exceed ten years from the Grant Date (except in the case of death or Disability).
Term
(f) . Except as otherwise provided herein, Options and Free-Standing SARs shall be exercisable at such time or times and subject to such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee, including terms and conditions related to the continued service of the applicable Participant or the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant, provided that in no event shall the normal vesting schedule of an Option or Free-Standing SAR provide that such Option or Free-Standing SAR vest prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant (other than in the case of death or Disability). If the Committee provides that any Option or Free-Standing SAR will become exercisable only in installments, the Committee may at any time waive such installment exercise provisions, in whole or in part, based on such factors as the Committee may determine.
Vesting and Exercisability
(g) . The method of exercising Options and SARs shall be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
Method of Exercise
(h) . No Shares shall be delivered pursuant to the exercise of an Option until the exercise price therefor has been fully paid and applicable taxes have been withheld. The applicable Participant shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company holding the class or series of Common Stock that is subject to the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including, if applicable, the right to vote the applicable Shares and the right to receive dividends), when the Participant (i) has given written notice of exercise, (ii) if requested, has given the representation described in Section 14(a), and (iii) in the case of an Option, has paid in full for such Shares.
Delivery; Rights of Stockholders
 
(i) . No Option or Free-Standing SAR shall be transferable by a Participant other than (i) by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or (ii) in the case of a Nonqualified Option or Free-Standing SAR, if expressly permitted by the Committee pursuant to a transfer to the Participant's family members, whether directly or indirectly or by means of a trust or partnership or otherwise, or a transfer for a charitable donation. For purposes of this Plan, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, "family member" shall have the meaning given to such term in General Instructions A.1(a)(5) to Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and any successor thereto. A Tandem SAR shall be transferable only with the related Option as permitted by the preceding sentence. Any Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable, subject to the terms of this Plan, only by the applicable Participant, the guardian or legal representative of such Participant, or any person to whom such Option or Stock Appreciation Right is permissibly transferred pursuant to this Section 5(i), it being understood that the term "Participant" includes such guardian, legal representative and other transferee; , , that the term "Termination of Employment" shall continue to refer to the Termination of Employment of the original Participant.
Nontransferability of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
provided
however
SECTION 6. Restricted Stock
(a) . Shares of Restricted Stock are actual Shares issued to a Participant, and shall be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem appropriate, including book-entry registration or issuance of one or more stock certificates. Any certificate issued in respect of Shares of Restricted Stock shall be registered in the name of the applicable Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Award, substantially in the following form:
Nature of Awards and Certificates
"The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) of the Teradata Corporation, 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and an Award Agreement. Copies of such Plan and Agreement are on file at the offices of Teradata Corporation, 2835 Miami Village Drive, Miamisburg, Ohio 45342."
The Committee may require that the certificates evidencing such shares be held in custody by the Company until the restrictions thereon shall have lapsed and that, as a condition of any Award of Restricted Stock, the applicable Participant shall have delivered a stock power, endorsed in blank, relating to the Common Stock covered by such Award.
(b) . Shares of Restricted Stock shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Terms and Conditions
(i) The Committee shall, prior to or at the time of grant, condition (A) the vesting of an Award of Restricted Stock upon the continued service of the applicable Participant or (B) the grant or vesting of an Award of Restricted Stock upon the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant. In the event that the Committee conditions the grant or vesting of an Award of Restricted Stock upon the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant, the Committee may, prior
 
to or at the time of grant, designate an Award of Restricted Stock as a Qualified Performance-Based Award. The conditions for grant or vesting and the other provisions of Restricted Stock Awards (including without limitation any applicable Performance Goals) need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
(ii) Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, during the period, if any, set by the Committee, commencing with the date of such Restricted Stock Award for which such vesting restrictions apply (the "Restriction Period"), and until the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not be permitted to sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber Shares of Restricted Stock. Subject to the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, any Award of Restricted Stock shall be subject to vesting during the Restriction Period of at least three years following the date of grant, that a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant is permissible if vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals, and that an Award may vest in part on a pro rata basis prior to the expiration of any Restriction Period, , , that up to five percent of Shares available for grant as Restricted Stock (together with all other Shares available for grant as Full-Value Awards) may be granted with a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant regardless of whether vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals.
provided
provided, further
provided
further
(iii) Except as provided in this Section 6 and in the applicable Award Agreement, the applicable Participant shall have, with respect to the Shares of Restricted Stock, all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company holding the class or series of Common Stock that is the subject of the Restricted Stock, including, if applicable, the right to vote the Shares and the right to receive any cash dividends. If so determined by the Committee in the applicable Award Agreement and subject to Section 14(e), (A) cash dividends on the class or series of Common Stock that is the subject of the Restricted Stock Award shall be automatically deferred and reinvested in additional Restricted Stock, held subject to the vesting of the underlying Restricted Stock, and (B) subject to any adjustment pursuant to Section 3(d), dividends payable in Common Stock shall be paid in the form of Restricted Stock of the same class as the Common Stock with which such dividend was paid, held subject to the vesting of the underlying Restricted Stock.
(iv) If and when any applicable Performance Goals are satisfied and the Restriction Period expires without a prior forfeiture of the Shares of Restricted Stock for which legended certificates have been issued, unlegended certificates for such Shares shall be delivered to the Participant upon surrender of the legended certificates.
SECTION 7. Restricted Stock Units
(a) . Restricted Stock Units are Awards denominated in Shares that will be settled, subject to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Units, in an amount in cash, Shares, or both, based upon the Fair Market Value of a specified number of Shares.
Nature of Awards
(b) . Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Terms and Conditions
(i) The Committee shall, prior to or at the time of grant, condition (A) the vesting of Restricted Stock Units upon the continued service of the applicable Participant or (B) the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock Units upon the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant. In the event that the Committee conditions the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock Units upon the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant, the Committee may, prior to or at the time of grant, designate the Restricted Stock Units as a Qualified Performance-Based Awards. The conditions for grant or vesting and the other provisions of Restricted Stock Units (including without limitation any applicable Performance Goals) need not be the same with respect to each recipient. An Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be settled as and when the Restricted Stock Units vest or at a later time specified by the Committee or in accordance with an election of the Participant, if the Committee so permits.
 
(ii) Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, during the period, if any, set by the Committee, commencing with the date of such Restricted Stock Units for which such vesting restrictions apply (the "Restriction Period"), and until the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not be permitted to sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber Restricted Stock Units. Subject to the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, any Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to vesting during the Restriction Period of at least three years following the date of grant, that a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant is permissible if vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals, and that a Restricted Stock Unit may vest in part prior to the expiration of any Restriction Period, , , that up to five percent of Shares available for grant as Restricted Stock Units (together with all other Shares available for grant as Full-Value Awards) may be granted with a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant regardless of whether vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals.
provided
provided, further
provided
further
(iii) The Award Agreement for Restricted Stock Units shall specify whether, to what extent and on what terms and conditions the applicable Participant shall be entitled to receive current or deferred payments of cash, Common Stock or other property corresponding to the dividends payable on the Common Stock (subject to Section 14(e) below).
SECTION 8. Performance Units.
Performance Units may be issued hereunder to Eligible Individuals, for no cash consideration or for such minimum consideration as may be required by applicable law, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. The Performance Goals to be achieved during any Performance Period and the length of the Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee upon the grant of each Performance Unit,that the Performance Period shall be no less than one year following the date of grant. The Committee may, in connection with the grant of Performance Units, designate them as Qualified Performance-Based Awards. The conditions for grant or vesting and the other provisions of Performance Units (including without limitation any applicable Performance Goals) need not be the same with respect to each recipient. Performance Units may be paid in cash, Shares, other property or any combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Committee as set forth in the applicable Award
provided
 
Agreement. The performance levels to be achieved for each Performance Period and the amount of the Award to be distributed shall be conclusively determined by the Committee. Performance Units may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the Performance Period. The maximum value of the property, including cash, that may be paid or distributed to any Participant pursuant to a grant of Performance Units made in any Performance Period shall be $7.5 million dollars.
SECTION 9. Other Stock-Based Awards
Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted under the Plan, provided that any Other Stock-Based Awards that are Awards of Common Stock that are unrestricted shall only be granted in lieu of other compensation due and payable to the Participant. Subject to the terms of the Plan, any Other Stock-Based Award that is a Full Value Award shall be subject to vesting during a Restriction Period of at least three years following the date of grant, that a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant is permissible if vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals, and , that an Other Stock-Based Award that is a Full Value Award may vest in part on a pro rata basis prior to the expiration of any Restriction Period, , , that up to five percent of Shares available for grant as Other Stock-Based Awards that are Full Value Awards (together with all other Shares available for grant as Full Value Awards) may be granted with a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant regardless of whether vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals.
provided
provided
further
provided
further
SECTION 10. Change in Control Provisions
(a) . Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, unless Awards are not assumed, converted or replaced in which case such Awards shall vest immediately prior to the Change in Control, upon a Participant's Termination of Employment, during the 24-month period following a Change in Control, (x) by the Company other than for Cause or Disability or (y) for Participants who are participants in the Teradata Change in Control Severance Plan (the "CIC Severance Plan"), for Participants who participate in a Teradata Severance Policy ("Severance Policy") at a level that provides the Participant with the opportunity to resign for "good reason," and for other Participants to the extent set forth in an Award Agreement, by the Participant for Good Reason (as defined below):
Impact of Event
(i) any Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of such Termination of Employment which were outstanding as of the date of such Change in Control shall be fully exercisable and vested and shall remain exercisable until the later of (A) the last date on which such Option or Stock Appreciation Right would be exercisable in the absence of this Section 10(a) and (B) the first anniversary of such Termination of Employment, that in no event shall the Option or Stock Appreciation Right be exercisable beyond the expiration of the Term of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right;
provided
(ii) the restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any Restricted Stock shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock outstanding as of such Termination of Employment which were outstanding as of the date of such Change in Control shall become free of all restrictions and become fully vested and transferable; and
 
(iii) all Restricted Stock Units outstanding as of such Termination of Employment which were outstanding as of the date of such Change in Control shall be considered to be earned and payable in full, and any deferral or other restriction shall lapse and such Restricted Stock Units shall be settled as promptly as is practicable in (subject to Section 3(d)) the form set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
For purposes of this Section 10, "Good Reason" means if the Participant is a participant in the CIC Severance Plan or is subject to the Severance Policy, "Good Reason" as defined in the CIC Severance Plan or the Severance Policy, as applicable, or, if the Participant is not a participant in the CIC Severance Plan or the Severance Policy, as applicable, "Good Reason" as defined in any Individual Agreement or Award Agreement to which the applicable Participant is a party.
(b) . Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, for purposes of the Plan, a "Change in Control" shall mean any of the following events:
Definition of Change in Control
(i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of thirty percent (30%) or more of either (a) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (b) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (d) any acquisition pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (iii) of this Section 10(b); or
provided
however
(ii) Individuals who, as of the date of this Plan, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date of this Plan whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
provided
however
(iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another entity (a "Corporate Transaction"), in each case, unless, following such Corporate Transaction, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote
 
generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be; (B) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, thirty percent (30%) or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Corporate Transaction; and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Corporate Transaction; or
(iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
SECTION 11. Qualified Performance-Based Awards; Section 16(b)
(a) The provisions of this Plan are intended to ensure that all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder to any Participant who is or may be a "covered employee" (within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code) in the tax year in which such Option or Stock Appreciation Right is expected to be deductible to the Company qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, and all such Awards shall therefore be considered Qualified Performance-Based Awards and this Plan shall be interpreted and operated consistent with that intention (including, without limitation, to require that all such Awards be granted by a committee composed solely of members who satisfy the requirements for being "outside directors" for purposes of the Section 162(m) Exemption ("Outside Directors")). When granting any Award other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Committee may designate such Award as a Qualified Performance-Based Award, based upon a determination that (i) the recipient is or may be a "covered employee" (within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code) with respect to such Award, and (ii) the Committee wishes such Award to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, and the terms of any such Award (and of the grant thereof) shall be consistent with such designation (including, without limitation, that all such Awards be granted by a committee composed solely of Outside Directors). Within 90 days after the commencement of a Performance Period or, if earlier, by the expiration of 25% of a Performance Period, the Committee will designate one or more Performance Periods, determine the Participants for the Performance Periods and establish the Performance Goals for the Performance Periods.
(b) Each Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right) shall be earned, vested and/or payable (as applicable) only upon the achievement of one or more Performance Goals, together with the satisfaction of any other conditions, such as continued employment, as the Committee may determine to be appropriate.
(c) The full Board shall not be permitted to exercise authority granted to the Committee to the extent that the grant or exercise of such authority would cause an Award designated as a Qualified Performance-Based Award not to qualify for, or to cease to qualify for, the Section 162(m) Exemption.
 
(d) The provisions of this Plan are intended to ensure that no transaction under the Plan is subject to (and not exempt from) the short-swing recovery rules of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act ("Section 16(b)"). Accordingly, the composition of the Committee shall be subject to such limitations as the Board deems appropriate to permit transactions pursuant to this Plan to be exempt (pursuant to Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) from Section 16(b), and no delegation of authority by the Committee shall be permitted if such delegation would cause any such transaction to be subject to (and not exempt from) Section 16(b).
SECTION 12. Term, Amendment and Termination
(a) . The Plan was adopted by the Board effective as of immediately prior to the Effective Time, and approved by NCR Corporation, as sole shareholder of the Company, as of immediately prior to the Effective Time. On October 7, 2008, the Plan was amended and restated in its entirety, as set forth herein, in order to comply with Section 409A of the Code.
Effectiveness
(b) . The Plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. Awards outstanding as of such date shall not be affected or impaired by the termination of the Plan.
Termination
(c) . The Board may amend, alter, or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made which would materially impair the rights of the Participant with respect to a previously granted Award without such Participant's consent, except such an amendment made to comply with applicable law, including without limitation Section 409A of the Code, stock exchange rules or accounting rules. In addition, no such amendment shall be made without the approval of the Company's stockholders to the extent such approval is required by applicable law or the listing standards of the Applicable Exchange.
Amendment of Plan
(d) . Subject to Section 5(d), the Committee may unilaterally amend the terms of any Award theretofore granted, but no such amendment shall cause a Qualified Performance-Based Award to cease to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption or without the Participant's consent materially impair the rights of any Participant with respect to an Award, except such an amendment made to cause the Plan or Award to comply with applicable law, stock exchange rules or accounting rules.
Amendment of Awards
SECTION 13. Unfunded Status of Plan
It is presently intended that the Plan constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. The Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver Common Stock or make payments; , , that unless the Committee otherwise determines, the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the "unfunded" status of the Plan.
provided
however
SECTION 14. General Provisions
(a) . The Committee may require each person purchasing or receiving Shares pursuant to an Award to represent to and agree with the Company in writing that such person is acquiring the Shares without a view to the distribution thereof. The certificates for such Shares may include any legend which the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on
Conditions for Issuance
 
transfer. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or agreements made pursuant thereto, the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (i) listing or approval for listing upon notice of issuance, of such Shares on the Applicable Exchange; (ii) any registration or other qualification of such Shares of the Company under any state or federal law or regulation, or the maintaining in effect of any such registration or other qualification which the Committee shall, in its absolute discretion upon the advice of counsel, deem necessary or advisable; and (iii) obtaining any other consent, approval, or permit from any state or federal governmental agency which the Committee shall, in its absolute discretion after receiving the advice of counsel, determine to be necessary or advisable.
(b) . Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements for its employees.
Additional Compensation Arrangements
(c) . The Plan shall not constitute a contract of employment, and adoption of the Plan shall not confer upon any employee any right to continued employment, nor shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate to terminate the employment of any employee at any time.
No Contract of Employment
(d) . No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of a Participant for federal, state, local or foreign income or employment or other tax purposes with respect to any Award under the Plan, such Participant shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, any federal, state, local or foreign taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such amount, up to the Participant's minimum required tax withholding rate (or such other rate that will not trigger a negative accounting impact). Unless otherwise determined by the Company, withholding obligations may be settled with Common Stock, including Common Stock that is part of the Award that gives rise to the withholding requirement. The obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company and its Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to such Participant. The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate, including making irrevocable elections, for the settlement of withholding obligations with Common Stock.
Required Taxes
(e) . Reinvestment of dividends in additional Restricted Stock at the time of any dividend payment, and the payment of Shares with respect to dividends to Participants holding Awards of Restricted Stock Units, shall only be permissible if sufficient Shares are available under Section 3 for such reinvestment or payment (taking into account then outstanding Awards). In the event that sufficient Shares are not available for such reinvestment or payment, such reinvestment or payment shall be made in the form of a grant of Restricted Stock Units equal in number to the Shares that would have been obtained by such payment or reinvestment, the terms of which Restricted Stock Units shall provide for settlement in cash and for dividend equivalent reinvestment in further Restricted Stock Units on the terms contemplated by this Section 14(e).
Limitation on Dividend Reinvestment and Dividend Equivalents
 
(f) . The Committee shall establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable in the event of such Participant's death are to be paid or by whom any rights of such eligible Individual, after such Participant's death, may be exercised.
Designation of Death Beneficiary
(g) . In the case of a grant of an Award to any employee of a Subsidiary of the Company, the Company may, if the Committee so directs, issue or transfer the Shares, if any, covered by the Award to the Subsidiary, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Subsidiary will transfer the Shares to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Award specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. All Shares underlying Awards that are forfeited or canceled should revert to the Company.
Subsidiary Employees
(h) . The Plan and all Awards made and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Plan are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.
Governing Law and Interpretation
(i) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 5(i) or by the Committee, Awards under the Plan are not transferable except by will or by laws of descent and distribution.
Non-Transferability
(j) . The Committee may grant Awards to Eligible Individuals who are foreign nationals, who are located outside the United States or who are not compensated from a payroll maintained in the United States, or who are otherwise subject to (or could cause the Company to be subject to) legal or regulatory provisions of countries or jurisdictions outside the United States, on such terms and conditions different from those specified in the Plan as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable to foster and promote achievement of the purposes of the Plan, and, in furtherance of such purposes, the Committee may make such modifications, amendments, procedures, or subplans as may be necessary or advisable to comply with such legal or regulatory provisions.
Foreign Employees and Foreign Law Considerations
(k) . Subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall be authorized to establish procedures pursuant to which the payment of any Award may be deferred. Subject to the provisions of this Plan and any Award Agreement, the recipient of an Award (including, without limitation, any deferred Award) may, if so determined by the Committee, be entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis, interest or dividends, or interest or dividend equivalents, with respect to the number of shares covered by the Award, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and the Committee may provide that such amounts (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested.
Deferrals
(l) . Awards granted under this Plan shall be designed and administered in such a manner that they are either exempt from the application of, or comply with, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. To the extent that the Committee determines that any award granted under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Award Agreement shall incorporate the terms and conditions necessary to avoid the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code upon a Participant. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement (unless the Award Agreement provides otherwise with specific reference to this Section): (i) an Award shall not be granted, deferred, accelerated, extended, paid
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
 
out, settled, substituted or modified under this Plan in a manner that would result in the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code upon a Participant; and (ii) if an Award constitutes "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, and if the participant holding the award is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Code, with such classification to be determined in accordance with the methodology established by the Company), no distribution or payment of any amount shall be made before a date that is six (6) months following the date of such participant's "separation from service" (as defined in Section 409A of the Code) or, if earlier, the date of the participant's death. Although the Company intends to administer the Plan so that Awards will be exempt from, or will comply with, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Company does not warrant that any award under the Plan will qualify for favorable tax treatment under Section 409A of the Code or any other provision of federal, state, local, or non-United States law. Neither the Company, its Subsidiaries, nor their respective directors, officers, employees or advisers shall be liable to any Participant (or any other individual claiming a benefit through the Participant) for any tax, interest, or penalties the Participant might owe as a result of the grant, holding, vesting, exercise, or payment of any award under the Plan.
, the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan to be executed on this 7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
th
day of October, 2008.
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
, 2008
                
Why are amendments being made?
The U.S. tax rules applicable to nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements were recently changed pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. As a result of these changes, Teradata is required to amend certain of its compensation arrangements, including the terms of certain of its outstanding equity award agreements, by the end of this year.
Why am I receiving this Notice?
You are receiving this notice of amendments because our records indicate that you have been granted one or more equity awards (each an "Award") under the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, the NCR Corporation 2006 Stock Incentive Plan or the NCR Management Stock Plan, as amended. Due to changes in the U.S. tax laws, as permitted under the terms of the applicable plan and Award agreements, we are required to make relatively minor amendments to the Awards. These amendments are described on Exhibit A. If we do not make these changes, you could be subject to immediate taxation upon vesting (rather than upon payment) of your Awards, and you could be subject to interest and a 20% penalty tax.
Do I need to take any action?
. If you agree to the amendments, there is no need for you to do anything except read this notice and keep a copy for your files. In other words, your failure to object by providing notice to Teradata will be treated as your consent to the amendments.
Generally, no
If you do not agree to the amendments, you must notify Teradata that you do not consent to the amendments by filing a written objection, no later than , 2008, with . If you do not consent to the amendments (and you are subject to U.S. tax laws), Teradata will be required by law to notify the IRS, on a Form W-2, that certain Awards do not comply with the new tax laws. Teradata also will be required to withhold income tax on vesting (even if the Awards are not paid at that time), and you will be personally responsible for the payment of interest and a 20% penalty tax.
                
                                        
Where can I get additional information?
You may obtain additional information by calling at () or by writing to , . You may also obtain additional information about your Awards from the plan prospectus for the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, which is available online at .
                        
            
                    
                                        
                                
                                
 
Exhibit A
Effective as of December 31, 2008, each outstanding time-based restricted stock unit Award and performance-based restricted stock unit Award is hereby amended as described below.
Time-Based Restricted Stock Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
In these circumstances, the following special rules will apply if required by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"):
 
 
 
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In these circumstances, the following special rules will apply if required by Section 409A of the Code:
 
 
 
Miscellaneous
 
 
 
 
: To ensure compliance with requirements imposed by the IRS, we inform you that nothing contained herein or in any attachment hereto is intended to be used, or can be used, to avoid penalties imposed under the Internal Revenue Code.
IRS Circular 230 Disclosure


