FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20080801142955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2008, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata") approved the election of Peter L. Fiore and Cary T. Fu (collectively, the "New Directors") as members of the Board, effective as of July 29, 2008 (the "Effective Date"). Teradata expanded the size of the Board from seven to nine to accommodate the addition of the New Directors. Both Messrs. Fiore and Fu will serve as Class II directors, each until the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or until such time as his successor is duly elected and qualified or as otherwise provided in Teradata's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated Bylaws. Each of the New Directors is an independent director, and there are no arrangements or understandings between any New Director and any other person pursuant to which a New Director was selected as a director. There are no transactions involving either New Director that would be required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Effective on the Effective Date, both of the New Directors will participate in certain non-employee director compensation arrangements under the Teradata Corporation Director Compensation Program (the "Program"), a copy of which may be found at Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 15, 2008, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on behalf of Teradata. Under the terms of the Program, each of the New Directors will receive an initial equity grant of restricted stock units equal to the number of whole shares of the common stock of Teradata ("Common Stock") determined by dividing the dollar amount of the initial equity grant ($75,000.00) by the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan) of one share of Teradata Common Stock on the Effective Date. Each of the New Directors will also receive a mid-year equity award with a dollar value equal to $93,750.00, with 50% of such award to consist of stock options to purchase a number of shares of Common Stock and 50% of such award to consist of restricted stock units based on shares of Common Stock. In addition, each New Director will receive a prorated annual retainer to be paid on a quarterly basis beginning on the Effective Date, in the amount of $75,000, with an additional retainer amount of $5,000 to Mr. Fu for serving as a member of the Audit Committee, each such amount being paid in lieu of the annual retainers, and each prorated for the portion of the 2008-2009 Board Year in which such director is a member of the Board or Audit Committee, as applicable. The "2008-2009 Board Year" is defined as the year beginning on the date of the Company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (April 28, 2008) and ending on the date of Teradata's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Also on July 29, 2008, C.K. Prahalad notified Teradata of his intent to resign as a director of the company effective immediately following the Board's next meeting on October 7, 2008. Under the terms of the spin-off of Teradata from NCR Corporation, as one of two overlapping directors with NCR, Mr. Prahalad was eligible to stay on the Board until Teradata's 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. In light of the election of the New Directors, Mr. Prahalad, who is currently serving as a Class II director, indicated he desired to step down in October, and his decision to resign was not because of any disagreement with the company.
Effective as of the Effective Date, the following membership changes were made to the committees of the Board:
 
 
 
Therefore, effective as of the Effective Date, the membership of the committees of the Board is as follows:
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2008, Teradata issued a press release that announced the election of the New Directors to the Board as of July 29, 2008, a copy of which press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Release on July 29, 2008
 Corporation (NYSE: ), the global leader in , today announced the election of two technology company leaders to its Board of Directors, Peter Fiore and Cary T. Fu. Fiore and Fu will join the board as Class II directors effective as of July 29, 2008.
MIAMISBURG, Ohio
Teradata
TDC
enterprise data warehousing
"Both of these executives bring extensive leadership experience in technology companies where they drove innovation and growth," said James (Jim) Ringler, chairman, Teradata Corporation. "Their broad global experience and deep understanding of technology issues and strategies, with solid operations and financial management experience, position them as strong additions to the Teradata Board."
Peter Fiore is president and chief executive officer of Crossbeam Systems, Inc., the leading provider of next generation network security platforms and appliances. Prior to joining Crossbeam in June 2007, Fiore was vice president of IBM's Information Platform and Solutions business and was a member of IBM's global leadership team. He joined IBM in 2005 as a result of IBM's acquisition of Ascential Software Corporation, where he had served as president since its inception in July 2001. Earlier, he was president of Informix Business Solutions and executive vice president and general manager of Ardent Software (and its predecessor VMARK Software), where he led the company's data warehousing unit. Fiore earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in engineering and applied sciences from Harvard College. He also serves on the boards of Crossbeam Systems, Inc. and Kadient, Inc.
 
Cary T. Fu is chief executive officer of Benchmark Electronics, Inc., a leader in manufacturing and engineering services to original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) of computers and related products for business enterprises, medical devices, industrial control equipment, test and instrumentation products and telecommunications equipment. With two partners, Fu founded Benchmark in 1986, serving as chief financial officer for 15 years and as chief operating officer for four years. He was appointed chief executive officer in 2004 and has served on Benchmark's Board of Directors since the company's inception. Under Fu's leadership, Benchmark grew into a multi-billion dollar company, which was fueled by seven major acquisitions and strategic organic expansion. He was also integrally involved in taking Benchmark public in 1990. Prior to joining Benchmark, Fu served as controller at Intermedics, Inc., a manufacturer and marketer of cardiac pacemakers and other biomedical products. Fu is a graduate of the University of Houston with a Master of Science in accounting and is a certified public accountant.
About Teradata Corporation
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world's largest company solely focused on raising intelligence through data warehousing and enterprise analytics. Teradata is in more than 60 countries and on the Web at .
www.teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 


