FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20090806082257.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is furnishing the following information as required under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
On August 6, 2009, the Company issued a press release setting forth its second quarter 2009 revenue and earnings per share amounts. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Release on August 6, 2009
 Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC), the world's largest company solely focused on data warehousing and enterprise analytics, today reported revenue of $421 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, a decrease of 7 percent from $455 million in the second quarter of 2008.
DAYTON, Ohio
Revenue decreased 2 percent from the second quarter of 2008, when adjusted for 5 percentage points of negative impact from currency fluctuation.
(1)
Gross margin in the second quarter was 55.3 percent, versus 54.7 percent in the second quarter of 2008. Product gross margin declined due to lower volume and foreign currency translation, while service gross margin increased due to higher professional services margin, as Teradata effectively managed expenses while increasing the productivity of the company's professional services resources.
Selling, general and administrative expenses were down $10 million from the second quarter of 2008, while research and development expenses increased $2 million from the prior-year period.
Teradata reported second-quarter net income of $62 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, compared to net income of $69 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2008.
"Teradata delivered another good quarter, and for the first half of 2009, revenues were up 1 percent in constant currency, and earnings per share were the same as prior year. This was a solid start, considering the economic environment. These results also included increased investments in R&D, market coverage and strategic partnerships, which are key to our future. The entire organization executed well, delivering significant customer wins and expansions,
 
 
improving gross margins and managing costs," said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata Corporation.
"In the second quarter, we announced our expanded partnership with SAP and released Teradata 13, a very significant database release in terms of performance boost, new features and functionalities. In addition, we released data warehouse firsts such as storage virtualization and automated multi-temperature data management.
"We continue to advance our technology lead in data warehousing across all of our platforms. We have a strong business model, and we are focused on bringing value to our customers today and for years to come."
Regional Operating Segment Results
Teradata reports its results in three regional operating segments.
Teradata generated $229 million of revenue in its Americas region in the second quarter of 2009, down 3 percent from $236 million in the second quarter of 2008. Revenue declined 1 percent, when adjusted for 2 percentage points of negative impact from currency translation.
(1)
Gross margin in the Americas region in the quarter was 58.1 percent, compared to 57.6 percent in the second quarter of 2008. Gross margin in the quarter was higher due to improved professional services gross margin, which benefited from higher utilization rates, lower outside contractor expense and overall cost management.
Revenue in Teradata's EMEA region in the second quarter of 2009 was $118 million, down 8 percent from $128 million generated in the second quarter of 2008. Revenue increased 6 percent when adjusted for currency translation, which negatively impacted the revenue comparison in the EMEA region by 14 percentage points.
(1)
Gross margin in the EMEA region was 54.2 percent, versus 53.1 percent in the second quarter of 2008. Gross margin in EMEA improved in the second quarter of 2009 due to improved professional services margin, which offset the effects of foreign currency translation and an adverse mix of hardware content and third-party products.
 
 
Teradata generated $74 million of revenue in its APJ region in the quarter, a 19 percent decrease from $91 million in the second quarter of 2008. The revenue decline in the APJ region was 17 percent, when adjusted for 2 percentage points of negative impact from currency translation.
(1)
Gross margin in the APJ region in the quarter was 48.6 percent, compared to 49.5 percent in the second quarter of 2008. Gross margin in the APJ region was lower due to the impact of lower product volume and the resulting adverse mix of product versus services revenues, which was somewhat offset by improved professional services margin.
Operating Income
Second-quarter operating income of $84 million was down from $92 million reported in the second quarter of 2008, as gross margin improvement, lower selling, general and administrative expense and the impact of currency translation were offset by lower revenue and volume, higher research and development expense and incremental investment in new sales territories.
Other Items
"Other Income" declined $2 million from the second quarter of 2008 as interest income was offset by normal recurring fees associated with the company's operational financing activities. The lower interest rate environment negatively impacted interest income, despite Teradata having $271 million more in cash and short-term investments than at the end of the second quarter of 2008.
The effective income tax rate in the second quarter of 2009 was 26.2 percent, versus 26.6 percent in the prior-year period.
Cash Flow
During the second quarter of 2009, Teradata generated $103 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $85 million in the prior-year period. Capital expenditures in the second quarter of 2009 were $20 million, compared to $23 million in the second quarter of 2008. Teradata generated $83 million of free cash flow (cash from operations less capital expenditures
 
 
and additions to capitalized software)
(2)
in the second quarter of 2009, versus generating $62 million in the same period in 2008.
During the first six months of 2009, Teradata generated $268 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $228 million in the prior-year period. Capital expenditures in the first half of 2009 were $40 million, compared to $43 million in the same period in 2008. During the first two quarters of 2009, Teradata generated $228 million of free cash flow, versus $185 million in the same period in 2008.
 
Balance Sheet
Teradata ended the second quarter of 2009 with $638 million in cash, a $67 million increase from March 31, 2009. In addition, the company used approximately $30 million of cash to repurchase approximately 1.4 million shares during the second quarter of 2009. During the first six months of 2009, the company used approximately $50 million to repurchase approximately 2.7 million shares.
Guidance
Although the global economic environment continues to impact capital expenditures by companies, and limits visibility into demand for the foreseeable future, Teradata expects earnings
 
 
per share to be in the $1.22 to $1.28 range for the full year 2009. For the full year, the company continues to expect selling, general and administrative expenses to be flat to down from 2008. Within this previously discussed expectation, the company expects higher selling expense, as well as higher research and development expense and amortization of capitalized software in the second half of the year, compared to these items in the first half of the year.
2009 Second-Quarter Earnings Conference Call
A conference call is scheduled today at 8:30 a.m. (EDT) to discuss the company's second-quarter 2009 results. Access to the conference call, as well as a replay of the call, is available on Teradata's web site at .
www.teradata.com/investor
Supplemental financial information regarding Teradata's operating results is also available on the Investor Relations page of Teradata's web site.
About Teradata
(NYSE: ) is the world's largest company solely focused on raising intelligence through , , and . Teradata is in more than 60 countries and on the web at .
Teradata Corporation
TDC
data warehousing
data warehouse appliances
consulting services
enterprise analytics
www.teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially.
In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the current global economic downturn and its impact on the markets in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the data enterprise warehousing business, including the increased pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described from time to time in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the company's annual reports to stockholders The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Schedule A
Schedule B
 
Schedule C
 
 


