FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20090209172934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At its February 3, 2009 meeting, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata" or the "Company") amended and restated the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to make certain minor changes, including clarifying that the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board has the ability to adjust performance goals for qualified performance-based awards granted under the Plan, provided that an adjustment is not permitted to the extent that it would result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Company under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), that would otherwise have been available for such award. A copy of the Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The Plan will be submitted together with the Teradata Corporation Management Incentive Plan to stockholders for approval pursuant to Section 162(m) of the Code at the Company's 2009 annual meeting of stockholders, scheduled to be held on April 28, 2009.
In connection with the spin off of Teradata from NCR Corporation in late 2007, each of the Company's executive officers received an offer letter to join Teradata. Each letter agreement sets forth, among other things, the following terms relating to the officer's employment as of the spin off: (a) annual base salary and annual incentive award opportunity; (b) the terms of the equity grant awarded to the officer in connection with the spin off; (c) a statement of eligibility for participation in the Company's change in control severance plan; and (d) a statement of the vacation and health and welfare benefits available to each officer. In addition, by accepting the terms of the letter, each officer agreed to the following covenants during and for twelve months following his termination of employment, unless such covenants are waived by the Board: (x) not to render services directly or indirectly to a competing organization, (y) not to directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata to terminate his employment with or otherwise cease his relationship with Teradata; and (z) not to solicit the business of any firm or company, including customers, with which the officer worked during the last two (2) years of employment.
In connection with its plan to comply with Section 409A of the Code, the Company recently amended the employment letters of several of its officers. These amendments generally are technical in nature and affect the timing, but not the amount, of compensation that could be received by the officers and, in particular, clarify the timing of the reimbursement of legal fees, if any, required under the terms of the offer letters.
A copy of the original offer letters as well as the amendments to the offer letters for Messrs. Robert Fair, Daniel Harrington, and Bruce Langos, each an executive officer of the Company, are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.2 through 10.7 and incorporated herein by reference.
The foregoing descriptions of the Plan and the executive offer letters, as amended, are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text thereof.
 
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
SECTION 1. Purpose; Definitions
The purpose of this Plan is to give the Company a competitive advantage in attracting, retaining and motivating officers, employees, directors and/or consultants and to provide the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates with a long-term incentive plan that (a) grants new Awards to provide incentives directly linked to stockholder value and (b) provides a means to assume and govern other awards pursuant to the adjustment of awards granted under any NCR Long Term Incentive Plan (as defined in the Employee Benefits Agreement) in accordance with the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement ("Adjusted Awards"). Certain terms used herein have definitions given to them in the first place in which they are used. In addition, for purposes of this Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below:
(a) "" means a corporation or other entity controlled by, controlling or under common control with, the Company.
Affiliate
(b) "" means the New York Stock Exchange or such other securities exchange as may at the applicable time be the principal market for the Common Stock.
Applicable Exchange
(c) "" means an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Units or Other Stock-Based Award granted pursuant to the terms of this Plan.
Award
(d) "" means a written document or agreement setting forth the terms and conditions of a specific Award.
Award Agreement
(e) "" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
Board
(f) "" means, unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, (i) "Cause" as defined in any Individual Agreement to which the applicable Participant is a party, or (ii) if there is no such Individual Agreement or if it does not define Cause: (A) conviction of the Participant for committing a felony under federal law or the law of the state in which such action occurred, (B) dishonesty in the course of fulfilling the Participant's employment duties, (C) failure on the part of the Participant to perform substantially such Participant's employment duties in any material respect, (D) a material violation of the Company's ethics and compliance program, or (E) before a Change in Control, such other events as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in a Participant's Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the general rule of Section 2(c), following a Change in Control, any determination by the Committee as to whether "Cause" exists shall be subject to de novo review.
Cause
(g) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 10(b).
Change in Control
(h) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto.
Code
(i) "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency.
Commission
(j) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2(a).
Committee
(k) "" means common stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company.
Common Stock
(l) "" means Teradata Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Company
(m) "" means, unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement (i) "Disability" as defined in any Individual Agreement to which the Participant is a party, (ii) if there is no such Individual Agreement or it does not define "Disability," (A) permanent and total disability as determined under the Company's long-term disability plan applicable to the Participant, or (B) if there is no such plan applicable to the Participant, "Disability" as determined by the Committee. Notwithstanding the above, with respect to an Incentive Stock Option, Disability shall mean Permanent and Total Disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code and, with respect to all Awards, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code, "disability" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
Disability
(n) "" means a Subsidiary's or Affiliate's ceasing to be a Subsidiary or Affiliate for any reason (including, without limitation, as a result of a public offering, or a spinoff or sale by the Company, of the stock of the Subsidiary or Affiliate) or a sale of a division of the Company and its Affiliates.
Disaffiliation
(o) "" means directors, officers, employees, contractors and consultants of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, and prospective employees, contractors and consultants who have accepted offers of employment, contract services or consultancy from the Company or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
Eligible Individuals
(p) "" means the Employee Benefits Agreement by and between NCR Corporation and the Company dated as of September 21, 2007.
Employee Benefits Agreement
(q) "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and any successor thereto.
Exchange Act
(r) "" means, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the closing price of a share of Common Stock on the Applicable Exchange on the date of measurement, or if Shares were not traded on the Applicable Exchange on such measurement date, then on the next preceding date on which Shares were traded, all as reported by such source as the Committee may select. If the Common Stock is not listed on a national securities exchange, Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Committee in its good faith discretion.
Fair Market Value
(s) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
Free-Standing SAR
(t) "" means any Award other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right or dividend equivalent right.
Full Value Award
(u) "" means (i) the date on which the Committee by resolution selects an Eligible Individual to receive a grant of an Award and determines the number of Shares to be subject to such Award, or (ii) such later date as the Committee shall provide in such resolution.
Grant Date
(v) "" means any Option that is designated in the applicable Award Agreement as an "incentive stock option" within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code, and that in fact so qualifies.
Incentive Stock Option
 
(w) "" means an employment, consulting or similar agreement between a Participant and the Company or one of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates.
Individual Agreement
(x) "" means any Option that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
Nonqualified Option
(y) "" means an Award granted under Section 5.
Option
(z) "" means Awards of Common Stock and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based upon, Common Stock, including (without limitation), unrestricted stock, dividend equivalents, and convertible debentures.
Other Stock-Based Award
(aa) "" means an Eligible Individual to whom an Award is or has been granted.
Participant
(bb) "" means the performance goals established by the Committee in connection with the grant of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units or Other Stock-Based Awards. In the case of Qualified Performance-Based Awards, (i) such goals shall be based on the attainment of specified levels of one or more of the following measures: revenues; revenue growth; product revenue growth; earnings (including earnings before taxes, earnings before interest and taxes or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); earnings per share; operating income (including non-pension operating income); pre- or after-tax income (before or after allocation of corporate overhead and bonus); cash flow (before or after dividends); cash flow per share (before or after dividends); gross margin; return on equity; return on capital (including return on total capital or return on invested capital); cash flow return on investment; return on assets or operating assets; economic value added (or an equivalent metric); stock price appreciation; total stockholder return (measured in terms of stock price appreciation and dividend growth); cost control; gross profit; operating profit; cash generation; unit volume; stock price; market share; sales; asset quality; cost saving levels; marketing-spending efficiency; core non-interest income; debt reductions; stockholder equity; regulatory achievements; implementation, completion or attainment of measurable objectives with respect to research, development, products or projects; recruiting and maintaining personnel; or change in working capital with respect to the Company or any one or more subsidiaries, divisions, business units or business segments of the Company either in absolute terms or relative to the performance of one or more other companies or an index covering multiple companies and (ii) such Performance Goals shall be set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
Performance Goals
(cc) "" means that period established by the Committee at the time any Performance Unit is granted or at any time thereafter during which any Performance Goals specified by the Committee with respect to such Award are to be measured.
Performance Period
(dd) "" means any Award granted under Section 8 of a unit valued by reference to a designated amount of property other than Shares, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Shares, or any combination thereof, upon achievement of such Performance Goals during the Performance Period as the Committee shall establish at the time of such grant or thereafter.
Performance Unit
 
(ee) "" means this Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as set forth herein and as hereafter amended from time to time.
Plan
(ff) "" means an Award intended to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, as provided in Section 11.
Qualified Performance-Based Award
(gg) "" means an Award granted under Section 6.
Restricted Stock
(hh) "" means an Award granted under Section 7.
Restricted Stock Units
(ii) "" means the exemption from the limitation on deductibility imposed by Section 162(m) of the Code that is set forth in Section 162(m)(4)(C) of the Code.
Section 162(m) Exemption
(jj) "" means any manager of the Company or any Affiliate holding a position at a salary grade of 15 or higher or any future grade that is the equivalent thereof.
Senior Manager
(kk) "" means a share of Common Stock.
Share
(ll) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
Stock Appreciation Right
(mm) "" means any corporation, partnership, joint venture or other entity during any period in which at least a 50% voting or profits interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or any successor to the Company.
Subsidiary
(nn) "" has the meaning set forth in Section 5(b).
Tandem SAR
(oo) "" means the maximum period during which an Option or Stock Appreciation Right may remain outstanding, subject to earlier termination upon Termination of Employment or otherwise, as specified in the applicable Award Agreement.
Term
(pp) "" means, unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, the termination of the applicable Participant's employment with, or performance of services for, the Company and any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, (i) if a Participant's employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates but such Participant continues to provide services to the Company and its Affiliates in a non-employee capacity, such change in status shall not be deemed a Termination of Employment and (ii) a Participant employed by, or performing services for, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate or a division of the Company and its Affiliates shall be deemed to incur a Termination of Employment if, as a result of a Disaffiliation, such Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division ceases to be a Subsidiary, Affiliate or division, as the case may be, and the Participant does not immediately thereafter become an employee of, or service provider for, the Company or another Subsidiary or Affiliate. Temporary absences from employment because of illness, vacation or leave of absence and transfers among the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall not be considered Terminations of Employment. For the avoidance of doubt, except as otherwise provided in the Award Agreements relating to any Adjusted Awards, the Separation shall not constitute a Termination of Employment for purposes of any Adjusted Award. Notwithstanding the above, to the extent required by Section 409A of the Code, the term Termination of Employment shall mean a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
Termination of Employment
 
SECTION 2. Administration
(a) . The Plan shall be administered by the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as the Board may from time to time designate (the "Committee"), which shall be composed of not less than two directors, and shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Committee shall, subject to Section 11, have plenary authority to grant Awards pursuant to the terms of the Plan to Eligible Individuals. Among other things, the Committee shall have the authority, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Employee Benefits Agreement (including the terms of the Adjusted Award):
Committee
(i) to select the Eligible Individuals to whom Awards may from time to time be granted;
(ii) to determine whether and to what extent Incentive Stock Options, Nonqualified Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Units, Other Stock-Based Awards, or any combination thereof, are to be granted hereunder;
(iii) to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
(iv) to determine the terms and conditions of each Award granted hereunder, based on such factors as the Committee shall determine;
(v) subject to Section 12, to modify, amend or adjust the terms and conditions of any Award;
(vi) to adopt, alter and repeal such administrative rules, guidelines and practices governing the Plan as it shall from time to time deem advisable;
(vii) to interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan and any Award issued under the Plan (and any agreement relating thereto);
(viii) to determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances cash, Shares and other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award under this Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Participant;
(ix) to accelerate the vesting or lapse of restrictions of any outstanding Award, based in each case on such considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion determines;
(x) to decide all other matters that must be determined in connection with an Award;
(xi) to establish any "blackout" period that the Committee in its sole discretion deems necessary or advisable; and
(xii) to otherwise administer the Plan.
(b) .
Procedures
(i) The Committee may act only by a majority of its members then in office, except that the Committee may, except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the listing standards of the Applicable Exchange and subject to Section 11, allocate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members and may delegate all or any part of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it, including to the Company's chief executive officer or one or more directors or executive officers the authority to grant Awards to Eligible Individuals who are not officers of the Company.
 
(ii) Subject to Section 11(c), any authority granted to the Committee may also be exercised by the full Board. To the extent that any permitted action taken by the Board conflicts with action taken by the Committee, the Board action shall control.
(c) . Subject to Section 1(f), any determination made by the Committee or by an appropriately delegated officer pursuant to delegated authority under the provisions of the Plan with respect to any Award shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee or such delegate at the time of the grant of the Award or, unless in contravention of any express term of the Plan, at any time thereafter. All decisions made by the Committee or any appropriately delegated officer pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company, Participants, and Eligible Individuals.
Discretion of Committee
(d) . Subject to Section 5(d), the Committee shall have full power and authority to determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances any Award shall be canceled or suspended. In particular, but without limitation, all outstanding Awards to any Participant may be canceled if the Participant, without the consent of the Committee, while employed by the Company or after termination of such employment, becomes associated with, employed by, renders services to, or owns any interest in (other than any nonsubstantial interest, as determined by the Committee), any business that is in competition with the Company or with any business in which the Company has a substantial interest, as determined by the Committee or any one or more Senior Managers or committee of Senior Managers to whom the authority to make such determination is delegated by the Committee.
Cancellation or Suspension
(e) . The terms and conditions of each Award, as determined by the Committee, shall be set forth in a written (or electronic) Award Agreement, which shall be delivered to the Participant receiving such Award upon, or as promptly as is reasonably practicable following, the grant of such Award. The effectiveness of an Award shall be subject to the Award Agreement's being signed by the Company and/or the Participant receiving the Award unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement. Award Agreements may be amended only in accordance with Section 12 hereof.
Award Agreements
SECTION 3. Common Stock Subject to Plan
(a) . The maximum number of Shares that may be granted pursuant to Awards under the Plan shall be 20 million. The maximum number of Shares that may be granted pursuant to Options intended to be Incentive Stock Options shall be 5 million Shares and shall not be affected by the provisions of Section 3(c)(ii). Shares subject to an Award under the Plan may be authorized and unissued Shares.
Plan Maximums
(b) . No Participant may be granted Options and Free-Standing SARs covering in excess of 2 million Shares, or Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units or other award subject to Performance Goals covering in excess of 750,000 Shares, during a 36 month period.
Individual Limits
(c) .
Rules for Calculating Shares Delivered
(i) With respect to Awards other than Adjusted Awards, to the extent that any Award is forfeited, or any Option and the related Tandem SAR (if any) or Free-Standing SAR terminates, expires or lapses without being exercised, or any Award is settled for cash, the
 
Shares subject to such Awards not delivered as a result thereof shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.
(ii) With respect to Awards other than Adjusted Awards, if the exercise price of any Option and/or the tax withholding obligations relating to any Award are satisfied by delivering Shares (either actually or through attestation) or withholding Shares relating to such Award or if any Shares subject to an Award shall otherwise not be delivered in settlement of such Award (including upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right), only the net number of Shares received by the Participant shall be deemed to have been issued for purposes of the maximum number of Shares in the first sentence of Section 3(a).
(iii) The provisions of Section 3(c)(i) and 3(c)(ii) shall also apply to Adjusted Awards such that any Shares subject to such awards that are forfeited or terminated, expire, lapse without being exercised or are settled for cash shall again be available for Awards under the Plan.
(d) . In the event of a merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or shares, stock rights offering, liquidation, Disaffiliation, or similar event affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (each, a "Corporate Transaction"), the Committee or the Board may in its discretion make such substitutions or adjustments as it deems appropriate and equitable to (A) the aggregate number and kind of Shares or other securities reserved for issuance and delivery under the Plan, (B) the various maximum limitations set forth in Sections 3(a) and 3(b) upon certain types of Awards and upon the grants to individuals of certain types of Awards, (C) the number and kind of Shares or other securities subject to outstanding Awards; and (D) the exercise price of outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. In the event of a stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, separation, spinoff, reorganization, extraordinary dividend of cash or other property, share combination, or recapitalization or similar event affecting the capital structure of the Company (each, a "Share Change"), the Committee or the Board shall make such substitutions or adjustments as it deems appropriate and equitable to (A) the aggregate number and kind of Shares or other securities reserved for issuance and delivery under the Plan, (B) the various maximum limitations set forth in Sections 3(a) and 3(b) upon certain types of Awards and upon the grants to individuals of certain types of Awards, (C) the number and kind of Shares or other securities subject to outstanding Awards; and (D) the exercise price of outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights. In the case of Corporate Transactions, such adjustments may include, without limitation, (1) the cancellation of outstanding Awards in exchange for payments of cash, property or a combination thereof having an aggregate value equal to the value of such Awards, as determined by the Committee or the Board in its sole discretion (it being understood that in the case of a Corporate Transaction with respect to which stockholders of Common Stock receive consideration other than publicly traded equity securities of the ultimate surviving entity, any such determination by the Committee that the value of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall for this purpose be deemed to equal the excess, if any, of the value of the consideration being paid for each Share pursuant to such Corporate Transaction over the exercise price of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall conclusively be deemed valid), , that in the event of the cancellation of such Awards pursuant to this clause (1), the Awards shall vest in full immediately prior to the consummation of such Corporate Transaction; (2) the substitution of other property (including, without limitation, cash or other securities of the Company and securities of entities other than the Company) for the Shares subject to outstanding Awards; and (3) in connection with any
Adjustment Provision
provided
 
Disaffiliation, arranging for the assumption of Awards, or replacement of Awards with new awards based on other property or other securities (including, without limitation, other securities of the Company and securities of entities other than the Company), by the affected Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division or by the entity that controls such Subsidiary, Affiliate, or division following such Disaffiliation (as well as any corresponding adjustments to Awards that remain based upon Company securities). The Committee may adjust in its sole discretion the Performance Goals applicable to any Awards to reflect any unusual or non-recurring events and other extraordinary items, impact of charges for restructurings, discontinued operations, and the cumulative effects of accounting or tax changes, each as defined by generally accepted accounting principles or as identified in the Company's financial statements, notes to the financial statements, management's discussion and analysis or the Company's other SEC filings, that in the case of Performance Goals applicable to any Qualified Performance-Based Awards, no adjustment may be made to such an Award to the extent that the adjustment will result in the disallowance of a deduction to the Company under Section 162(m) of the Code that would otherwise have been available for such Award.
provided
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing: (i) any adjustments made pursuant to Section 3(d) to Awards that are considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code shall be made in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; (ii) any adjustments made pursuant to Section 3(d) to Awards that are not considered "deferred compensation" subject to Section 409A of the Code shall be made in such a manner as to ensure that after such adjustment, the Awards either (A) continue not to be subject to Section 409A of the Code or (B) comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; and (iii) in any event, neither the Committee nor the Board shall have the authority to make any adjustments pursuant to Section 3(d) to the extent the existence of such authority would cause an Award that is not intended to be subject to Section 409A of the Code at the Grant Date to be subject thereto.
Section 409A.
SECTION 4. Eligibility
Awards may be granted under the Plan to Eligible Individuals and, with respect to Adjusted Awards, in accordance with the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement; , , that Incentive Stock Options may be granted only to employees of the Company and its subsidiaries or parent corporation (within the meaning of Section 424(f) of the Code) and, with respect to Adjusted Awards that are intended to qualify as incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 421 of the Code, in accordance with the terms of the Employee Benefits Agreement; that Options or Stock Appreciation Rights that are intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code may be granted only to Eligible Individuals who are providing services to the Company or any corporation or other entity as to which the Company is an "eligible issuer of service recipient stock" (within the meaning of 409A of the Code).
provided
however
provided, further,
SECTION 5. Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
(a) . Options may be of two types: Incentive Stock Options and Nonqualified Options. The Award Agreement for an Option shall indicate whether the Option is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Option.
Types of Options
(b) . Stock Appreciation Rights may be "Tandem SARs," which are granted in conjunction with an Option, or "Free-Standing SARs,"
Types and Nature of Stock Appreciation Rights
 
which are not granted in conjunction with an Option. Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the Participant shall be entitled to receive an amount in cash, Shares, or both, in value equal to the product of (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of one Share over the exercise price of the applicable Stock Appreciation Right, multiplied by (ii) the number of Shares in respect of which the Stock Appreciation Right has been exercised. The applicable Award Agreement shall specify whether such payment is to be made in cash or Common Stock or both, or shall reserve to the Committee or the Participant the right to make that determination prior to or upon the exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right.
(c) . A Tandem SAR may be granted at the Grant Date of the related Option. A Tandem SAR shall be exercisable only at such time or times and to the extent that the related Option is exercisable in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5, and shall have the same exercise price as the related Option. A Tandem SAR shall terminate or be forfeited upon the exercise or forfeiture of the related Option, and the related Option shall terminate or be forfeited upon the exercise or forfeiture of the Tandem SAR.
Tandem SARs
(d) . The exercise price per Share subject to an Option or Free-Standing SAR shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the applicable Award Agreement, and shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of a share of the Common Stock on the applicable Grant Date. In no event may any Option or Free-Standing SAR granted under this Plan be amended, other than pursuant to Section 3(d), to decrease the exercise price thereof, be cancelled in conjunction with the grant of any new Option or Free-Standing SAR with a lower exercise price, or otherwise be subject to any action that would be treated, for accounting purposes, as a "repricing" of such Option or Free-Standing SAR, unless such amendment, cancellation, or action is approved by the Company's stockholders.
Exercise Price
(e) . The Term of each Option and each Free-Standing SAR shall be fixed by the Committee, but shall not exceed ten years from the Grant Date (except in the case of death or Disability).
Term
(f) . Except as otherwise provided herein, Options and Free-Standing SARs shall be exercisable at such time or times and subject to such terms and conditions as shall be determined by the Committee, including terms and conditions related to the continued service of the applicable Participant or the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant, provided that in no event shall the normal vesting schedule of an Option or Free-Standing SAR provide that such Option or Free-Standing SAR vest prior to the first anniversary of the date of grant (other than in the case of death or Disability). If the Committee provides that any Option or Free-Standing SAR will become exercisable only in installments, the Committee may at any time waive such installment exercise provisions, in whole or in part, based on such factors as the Committee may determine.
Vesting and Exercisability
(g) . The method of exercising Options and SARs shall be set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
Method of Exercise
(h) . No Shares shall be delivered pursuant to the exercise of an Option until the exercise price therefor has been fully paid and applicable taxes have been withheld. The applicable Participant shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company
Delivery; Rights of Stockholders
 
holding the class or series of Common Stock that is subject to the Option or Stock Appreciation Right (including, if applicable, the right to vote the applicable Shares and the right to receive dividends), when the Participant (i) has given written notice of exercise, (ii) if requested, has given the representation described in Section 14(a), and (iii) in the case of an Option, has paid in full for such Shares.
(i) . No Option or Free-Standing SAR shall be transferable by a Participant other than (i) by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, or (ii) in the case of a Nonqualified Option or Free-Standing SAR, if expressly permitted by the Committee pursuant to a transfer to the Participant's family members, whether directly or indirectly or by means of a trust or partnership or otherwise, or a transfer for a charitable donation. For purposes of this Plan, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, "family member" shall have the meaning given to such term in General Instructions A.1(a)(5) to Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and any successor thereto. A Tandem SAR shall be transferable only with the related Option as permitted by the preceding sentence. Any Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable, subject to the terms of this Plan, only by the applicable Participant, the guardian or legal representative of such Participant, or any person to whom such Option or Stock Appreciation Right is permissibly transferred pursuant to this Section 5(i), it being understood that the term "Participant" includes such guardian, legal representative and other transferee; , , that the term "Termination of Employment" shall continue to refer to the Termination of Employment of the original Participant.
Nontransferability of Options and Stock Appreciation Rights
provided
however
SECTION 6. Restricted Stock
(a) . Shares of Restricted Stock are actual Shares issued to a Participant, and shall be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem appropriate, including book-entry registration or issuance of one or more stock certificates. Any certificate issued in respect of Shares of Restricted Stock shall be registered in the name of the applicable Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions, and restrictions applicable to such Award, substantially in the following form:
Nature of Awards and Certificates
"The transferability of this certificate and the shares of stock represented hereby are subject to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) of the Teradata Corporation, 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and an Award Agreement. Copies of such Plan and Agreement are on file at the offices of Teradata Corporation, 2835 Miami Village Drive, Miamisburg, Ohio 45342."
The Committee may require that the certificates evidencing such shares be held in custody by the Company until the restrictions thereon shall have lapsed and that, as a condition of any Award of Restricted Stock, the applicable Participant shall have delivered a stock power, endorsed in blank, relating to the Common Stock covered by such Award.
(b) . Shares of Restricted Stock shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Terms and Conditions
(i) The Committee shall, prior to or at the time of grant, condition (A) the vesting of an Award of Restricted Stock upon the continued service of the applicable Participant or (B) the grant or vesting of an Award of Restricted Stock upon the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the
 
applicable Participant. In the event that the Committee conditions the grant or vesting of an Award of Restricted Stock upon the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant, the Committee may, prior to or at the time of grant, designate an Award of Restricted Stock as a Qualified Performance-Based Award. The conditions for grant or vesting and the other provisions of Restricted Stock Awards (including without limitation any applicable Performance Goals) need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
(ii) Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, during the period, if any, set by the Committee, commencing with the date of such Restricted Stock Award for which such vesting restrictions apply (the "Restriction Period"), and until the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not be permitted to sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber Shares of Restricted Stock. Subject to the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, any Award of Restricted Stock shall be subject to vesting during the Restriction Period of at least three years following the date of grant, that a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant is permissible if vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals, and that an Award may vest in part on a pro rata basis prior to the expiration of any Restriction Period, , , that up to five percent of Shares available for grant as Restricted Stock (together with all other Shares available for grant as Full-Value Awards) may be granted with a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant regardless of whether vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals.
provided
provided, further
provided
further
(iii) Except as provided in this Section 6 and in the applicable Award Agreement, the applicable Participant shall have, with respect to the Shares of Restricted Stock, all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company holding the class or series of Common Stock that is the subject of the Restricted Stock, including, if applicable, the right to vote the Shares and the right to receive any cash dividends. If so determined by the Committee in the applicable Award Agreement and subject to Section 14(e), (A) cash dividends on the class or series of Common Stock that is the subject of the Restricted Stock Award shall be automatically deferred and reinvested in additional Restricted Stock, held subject to the vesting of the underlying Restricted Stock, and (B) subject to any adjustment pursuant to Section 3(d), dividends payable in Common Stock shall be paid in the form of Restricted Stock of the same class as the Common Stock with which such dividend was paid, held subject to the vesting of the underlying Restricted Stock.
(iv) If and when any applicable Performance Goals are satisfied and the Restriction Period expires without a prior forfeiture of the Shares of Restricted Stock for which legended certificates have been issued, unlegended certificates for such Shares shall be delivered to the Participant upon surrender of the legended certificates.
SECTION 7. Restricted Stock Units
(a) . Restricted Stock Units are Awards denominated in Shares that will be settled, subject to the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock Units, in an amount in cash, Shares, or both, based upon the Fair Market Value of a specified number of Shares.
Nature of Awards
(b) . Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
Terms and Conditions
 
(i) The Committee shall, prior to or at the time of grant, condition (A) the vesting of Restricted Stock Units upon the continued service of the applicable Participant or (B) the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock Units upon the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant. In the event that the Committee conditions the grant or vesting of Restricted Stock Units upon the attainment of Performance Goals or the attainment of Performance Goals and the continued service of the applicable Participant, the Committee may, prior to or at the time of grant, designate the Restricted Stock Units as a Qualified Performance-Based Awards. The conditions for grant or vesting and the other provisions of Restricted Stock Units (including without limitation any applicable Performance Goals) need not be the same with respect to each recipient. An Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be settled as and when the Restricted Stock Units vest or at a later time specified by the Committee or in accordance with an election of the Participant, if the Committee so permits.
(ii) Subject to the provisions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, during the period, if any, set by the Committee, commencing with the date of such Restricted Stock Units for which such vesting restrictions apply (the "Restriction Period"), and until the expiration of the Restriction Period, the Participant shall not be permitted to sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber Restricted Stock Units. Subject to the terms of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, any Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to vesting during the Restriction Period of at least three years following the date of grant, that a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant is permissible if vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals, and that a Restricted Stock Unit may vest in part prior to the expiration of any Restriction Period, , , that up to five percent of Shares available for grant as Restricted Stock Units (together with all other Shares available for grant as Full-Value Awards) may be granted with a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant regardless of whether vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals.
provided
provided, further
provided
further
(iii) The Award Agreement for Restricted Stock Units shall specify whether, to what extent and on what terms and conditions the applicable Participant shall be entitled to receive current or deferred payments of cash, Common Stock or other property corresponding to the dividends payable on the Common Stock (subject to Section 14(e) below).
SECTION 8. Performance Units.
Performance Units may be issued hereunder to Eligible Individuals, for no cash consideration or for such minimum consideration as may be required by applicable law, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan. The Performance Goals to be achieved during any Performance Period and the length of the Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee upon the grant of each Performance Unit,that the Performance Period shall be no less than one year following the date of grant. The Committee may, in connection with the grant of Performance Units, designate them as Qualified Performance-Based Awards. The conditions for grant or vesting and the other provisions of Performance Units (including without limitation any applicable Performance Goals) need not be the same with respect to each recipient. Performance Units may be paid in cash, Shares, other property or any combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Committee as set forth in the
provided
 
applicable Award Agreement. The performance levels to be achieved for each Performance Period and the amount of the Award to be distributed shall be conclusively determined by the Committee. Performance Units may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the Performance Period. The maximum value of the property, including cash, that may be paid or distributed to any Participant pursuant to a grant of Performance Units made in any Performance Period shall be $7.5 million dollars.
SECTION 9. Other Stock-Based Awards
Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted under the Plan, provided that any Other Stock-Based Awards that are Awards of Common Stock that are unrestricted shall only be granted in lieu of other compensation due and payable to the Participant. Subject to the terms of the Plan, any Other Stock-Based Award that is a Full Value Award shall be subject to vesting during a Restriction Period of at least three years following the date of grant, that a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant is permissible if vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals, and , that an Other Stock-Based Award that is a Full Value Award may vest in part on a pro rata basis prior to the expiration of any Restriction Period, , , that up to five percent of Shares available for grant as Other Stock-Based Awards that are Full Value Awards (together with all other Shares available for grant as Full Value Awards) may be granted with a Restriction Period of at least one year following the date of grant regardless of whether vesting is conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Goals.
provided
provided
further
provided
further
SECTION 10. Change in Control Provisions
(a) . Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, unless Awards are not assumed, converted or replaced in which case such Awards shall vest immediately prior to the Change in Control, upon a Participant's Termination of Employment, during the 24-month period following a Change in Control, (x) by the Company other than for Cause or Disability or (y) for Participants who are participants in the Teradata Change in Control Severance Plan (the "CIC Severance Plan"), for Participants who participate in a Teradata Severance Policy ("Severance Policy") at a level that provides the Participant with the opportunity to resign for "good reason," and for other Participants to the extent set forth in an Award Agreement, by the Participant for Good Reason (as defined below):
Impact of Event
(i) any Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of such Termination of Employment which were outstanding as of the date of such Change in Control shall be fully exercisable and vested and shall remain exercisable until the later of (A) the last date on which such Option or Stock Appreciation Right would be exercisable in the absence of this Section 10(a) and (B) the first anniversary of such Termination of Employment, that in no event shall the Option or Stock Appreciation Right be exercisable beyond the expiration of the Term of such Option or Stock Appreciation Right;
provided
(ii) the restrictions and deferral limitations applicable to any Restricted Stock shall lapse, and such Restricted Stock outstanding as of such Termination of Employment which were outstanding as of the date of such Change in Control shall become free of all restrictions and become fully vested and transferable; and
 
(iii) all Restricted Stock Units outstanding as of such Termination of Employment which were outstanding as of the date of such Change in Control shall be considered to be earned and payable in full, and any deferral or other restriction shall lapse and such Restricted Stock Units shall be settled as promptly as is practicable in (subject to Section 3(d)) the form set forth in the applicable Award Agreement.
For purposes of this Section 10, "Good Reason" means if the Participant is a participant in the CIC Severance Plan or is subject to the Severance Policy, "Good Reason" as defined in the CIC Severance Plan or the Severance Policy, as applicable, or, if the Participant is not a participant in the CIC Severance Plan or the Severance Policy, as applicable, "Good Reason" as defined in any Individual Agreement or Award Agreement to which the applicable Participant is a party.
(b) . Unless otherwise provided in the applicable Award Agreement, for purposes of the Plan, a "Change in Control" shall mean any of the following events:
Definition of Change in Control
(i) The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of thirty percent (30%) or more of either (a) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (b) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); , , that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (d) any acquisition pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (iii) of this Section 10(b); or
provided
however
(ii) Individuals who, as of the date of this Plan, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date of this Plan whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (
provided
however
 2
/
3
) of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
(iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the acquisition of assets of another entity (a "Corporate Transaction"), in each case, unless, following such Corporate Transaction, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then
 
outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be; (B) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, thirty percent (30%) or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Corporate Transaction; and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Corporate Transaction; or
(iv) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
SECTION 11. Qualified Performance-Based Awards; Section 16(b)
(a) The provisions of this Plan are intended to ensure that all Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted hereunder to any Participant who is or may be a "covered employee" (within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code) in the tax year in which such Option or Stock Appreciation Right is expected to be deductible to the Company qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, and all such Awards shall therefore be considered Qualified Performance-Based Awards and this Plan shall be interpreted and operated consistent with that intention (including, without limitation, to require that all such Awards be granted by a committee composed solely of members who satisfy the requirements for being "outside directors" for purposes of the Section 162(m) Exemption ("Outside Directors")). When granting any Award other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, the Committee may designate such Award as a Qualified Performance-Based Award, based upon a determination that (i) the recipient is or may be a "covered employee" (within the meaning of Section 162(m)(3) of the Code) with respect to such Award, and (ii) the Committee wishes such Award to qualify for the Section 162(m) Exemption, and the terms of any such Award (and of the grant thereof) shall be consistent with such designation (including, without limitation, that all such Awards be granted by a committee composed solely of Outside Directors). Within 90 days after the commencement of a Performance Period or, if earlier, by the expiration of 25% of a Performance Period, the Committee will designate one or more Performance Periods, determine the Participants for the Performance Periods and establish the Performance Goals for the Performance Periods.
(b) Each Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right) shall be earned, vested and/or payable (as applicable) only upon the achievement of one or more Performance Goals, together with the satisfaction of any other conditions, such as continued employment, as the Committee may determine to be appropriate.
(c) The full Board shall not be permitted to exercise authority granted to the Committee to the extent that the grant or exercise of such authority would cause an Award designated as a
 
Qualified Performance-Based Award not to qualify for, or to cease to qualify for, the Section 162(m) Exemption.
(d) The provisions of this Plan are intended to ensure that no transaction under the Plan is subject to (and not exempt from) the short-swing recovery rules of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act ("Section 16(b)"). Accordingly, the composition of the Committee shall be subject to such limitations as the Board deems appropriate to permit transactions pursuant to this Plan to be exempt (pursuant to Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) from Section 16(b), and no delegation of authority by the Committee shall be permitted if such delegation would cause any such transaction to be subject to (and not exempt from) Section 16(b).
SECTION 12. Term, Amendment and Termination
(a) . The Plan was adopted by the Board effective as of immediately prior to the Effective Time, and approved by NCR Corporation, as sole shareholder of the Company, as of immediately prior to the Effective Time.
Effectiveness
(b) . The Plan will terminate on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. Awards outstanding as of such date shall not be affected or impaired by the termination of the Plan.
Termination
(c) . The Board may amend, alter, or discontinue the Plan, but no amendment, alteration or discontinuation shall be made which would materially impair the rights of the Participant with respect to a previously granted Award without such Participant's consent, except such an amendment made to comply with applicable law, including without limitation Section 409A of the Code, stock exchange rules or accounting rules. In addition, no such amendment shall be made without the approval of the Company's stockholders to the extent such approval is required by applicable law or the listing standards of the Applicable Exchange.
Amendment of Plan
(d) . Subject to Section 5(d), the Committee may unilaterally amend the terms of any Award theretofore granted, but no such amendment shall materially impair the rights of any Participant with respect to an Award without the Participant's consent, except such an amendment made to cause the Plan or Award to comply with applicable law, stock exchange rules or accounting rules.
Amendment of Awards
SECTION 13. Unfunded Status of Plan
It is presently intended that the Plan constitute an "unfunded" plan for incentive and deferred compensation. The Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver Common Stock or make payments; , , that unless the Committee otherwise determines, the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the "unfunded" status of the Plan.
provided
however
SECTION 14. General Provisions
(a) . The Committee may require each person purchasing or receiving Shares pursuant to an Award to represent to and agree with the Company in writing that such person is acquiring the Shares without a view to the distribution thereof. The certificates for such Shares may include any legend which the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or
Conditions for Issuance
 
agreements made pursuant thereto, the Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for Shares under the Plan prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (i) listing or approval for listing upon notice of issuance, of such Shares on the Applicable Exchange; (ii) any registration or other qualification of such Shares of the Company under any state or federal law or regulation, or the maintaining in effect of any such registration or other qualification which the Committee shall, in its absolute discretion upon the advice of counsel, deem necessary or advisable; and (iii) obtaining any other consent, approval, or permit from any state or federal governmental agency which the Committee shall, in its absolute discretion after receiving the advice of counsel, determine to be necessary or advisable.
(b) . Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements for its employees.
Additional Compensation Arrangements
(c) . The Plan shall not constitute a contract of employment, and adoption of the Plan shall not confer upon any employee any right to continued employment, nor shall it interfere in any way with the right of the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate to terminate the employment of any employee at any time.
No Contract of Employment
(d) . No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of a Participant for federal, state, local or foreign income or employment or other tax purposes with respect to any Award under the Plan, such Participant shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, any federal, state, local or foreign taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect to such amount, up to the Participant's minimum required tax withholding rate (or such other rate that will not trigger a negative accounting impact). Unless otherwise determined by the Company, withholding obligations may be settled with Common Stock, including Common Stock that is part of the Award that gives rise to the withholding requirement. The obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company and its Affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to such Participant. The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate, including making irrevocable elections, for the settlement of withholding obligations with Common Stock.
Required Taxes
(e) . Reinvestment of dividends in additional Restricted Stock at the time of any dividend payment, and the payment of Shares with respect to dividends to Participants holding Awards of Restricted Stock Units, shall only be permissible if sufficient Shares are available under Section 3 for such reinvestment or payment (taking into account then outstanding Awards). In the event that sufficient Shares are not available for such reinvestment or payment, such reinvestment or payment shall be made in the form of a grant of Restricted Stock Units equal in number to the Shares that would have been obtained by such payment or reinvestment, the terms of which Restricted Stock Units shall provide for settlement in cash and for dividend equivalent reinvestment in further Restricted Stock Units on the terms contemplated by this Section 14(e).
Limitation on Dividend Reinvestment and Dividend Equivalents
(f) . The Committee shall establish such procedures as it deems appropriate for a Participant to designate a beneficiary to whom any amounts payable in
Designation of Death Beneficiary
 
the event of such Participant's death are to be paid or by whom any rights of such eligible Individual, after such Participant's death, may be exercised.
(g) . In the case of a grant of an Award to any employee of a Subsidiary of the Company, the Company may, if the Committee so directs, issue or transfer the Shares, if any, covered by the Award to the Subsidiary, for such lawful consideration as the Committee may specify, upon the condition or understanding that the Subsidiary will transfer the Shares to the employee in accordance with the terms of the Award specified by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. All Shares underlying Awards that are forfeited or canceled should revert to the Company.
Subsidiary Employees
(h) . The Plan and all Awards made and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws. The captions of this Plan are not part of the provisions hereof and shall have no force or effect.
Governing Law and Interpretation
(i) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 5(i) or by the Committee, Awards under the Plan are not transferable except by will or by laws of descent and distribution.
Non-Transferability
(j) . The Committee may grant Awards to Eligible Individuals who are foreign nationals, who are located outside the United States or who are not compensated from a payroll maintained in the United States, or who are otherwise subject to (or could cause the Company to be subject to) legal or regulatory provisions of countries or jurisdictions outside the United States, on such terms and conditions different from those specified in the Plan as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable to foster and promote achievement of the purposes of the Plan, and, in furtherance of such purposes, the Committee may make such modifications, amendments, procedures, or subplans as may be necessary or advisable to comply with such legal or regulatory provisions.
Foreign Employees and Foreign Law Considerations
(k) . Subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Committee shall be authorized to establish procedures pursuant to which the payment of any Award may be deferred. Subject to the provisions of this Plan and any Award Agreement, the recipient of an Award (including, without limitation, any deferred Award) may, if so determined by the Committee, be entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis, interest or dividends, or interest or dividend equivalents, with respect to the number of shares covered by the Award, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and the Committee may provide that such amounts (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested.
Deferrals
(l) . Awards granted under this Plan shall be designed and administered in such a manner that they are either exempt from the application of, or comply with, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. To the extent that the Committee determines that any award granted under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Award Agreement shall incorporate the terms and conditions necessary to avoid the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the Code upon a Participant. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement (unless the Award Agreement provides otherwise with specific reference to this Section): (i) an Award shall not be granted, deferred, accelerated, extended, paid out, settled, substituted or modified under this Plan in a manner that would result in the imposition of an additional tax under Section 409A of the
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
 
Code upon a Participant; and (ii) if an Award constitutes "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, and if the participant holding the award is a "specified employee" (as defined in Section 409A of the Code, with such classification to be determined in accordance with the methodology established by the Company), no distribution or payment of any amount shall be made before a date that is six (6) months following the date of such participant's "separation from service" (as defined in Section 409A of the Code) or, if earlier, the date of the participant's death. Although the Company intends to administer the Plan so that Awards will be exempt from, or will comply with, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Company does not warrant that any award under the Plan will qualify for favorable tax treatment under Section 409A of the Code or any other provision of federal, state, local, or non-United States law. Neither the Company, its Subsidiaries, nor their respective directors, officers, employees or advisers shall be liable to any Participant (or any other individual claiming a benefit through the Participant) for any tax, interest, or penalties the Participant might owe as a result of the grant, holding, vesting, exercise, or payment of any award under the Plan.
, the Company has caused this amended and restated Plan to be executed on this 3
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
rd
day of February, 2009.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
September 20, 2007
Robert Fair
NCR Corporation
Dear Bob:
I am delighted to extend to you an offer of employment with Teradata Corporation as Executive Vice President, Global Field Operations, effective immediately after Teradata separates from NCR Corporation on October 1, 2007 (your "Start Date"). In this position you will report directly to me and will be considered a Section 16 Officer of Teradata. Other details of this offer are as set forth below.
 Your annual base salary will be Three Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($360,000) per year, commencing on the Start Date. Your base salary will be paid in accordance with the Company's usual payroll practice, which is anticipated to be bi-weekly and one week in arrears.
Annual Base Salary
Your compensation will be reviewed from time to time for adjustment as appropriate in the judgment of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of Teradata's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee").
 You will be eligible to participate in Teradata Corporation's Management Incentive Plan for Executive Officers ("MIP"), which provides year-end incentive awards based on the success of Teradata Corporation in meeting annual performance objectives. You will be eligible for a target award of 75% of your base salary and a maximum award of 150% of your base salary. The actual award payable remains subject to the discretion of the Compensation Committee, and the award for 2007 will be based upon the number of months you are in this position during the year.
Annual Incentive Award
For the portion of 2007 you were employed by NCR Corporation, you will also be paid an annual incentive award under the NCR Business Performance Plan ("BPP") based on the target percentage, performance measures and results that were in effect during your employment there. The performance measures for the BPP award will be adjusted to reflect the impact of the separation.
As part of your previous position, you were eligible for a Revenue Growth Bonus in addition to your BPP award. This bonus was originally designed to award $100,000 (gross) for each 8% of Teradata Division's revenue growth beginning in 2007, continuing for a three year period, with a review at the end of 2009 to determine award continuation. As a result of the spin off and your appointment to your new role at Teradata as Executive Vice President, Global Field Operations, effective October 1, 2007, you will no longer be eligible for this bonus at the time you assume your new role. However, you will be eligible to receive a revenue growth bonus from NCR that is pro-rated for the first three (3) quarters of 2007 and based on Teradata Division's actual growth results from Q3 2006 to Q3 2007 compared to the 8% growth target. See Attachment B for an example of the calculation methodology.
 Contingent upon your acceptance of this offer, you will be granted an equity award with a total value of $500,000 to be delivered 50% in Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and 50% in Stock Options. The effective date of the grant will be on or as soon as practicable following the Start Date ("Equity Effective Date"). The methodology for converting the dollar value of the award into a number of units and options will be provided to you at a later date. This grant will be awarded under the Teradata Stock Incentive Plan which is not effective until Teradata becomes an independent company. Therefore, the grant is also subject to the separation of NCR and Teradata occurring and the Teradata Stock Incentive Plan going into effect.
Equity Grant
 In your new position, you will be an eligible participant in Tier II of Teradata's Change in Control Severance Plan for Executive Officers. Subject to the terms and conditions of that plan, in the event of a qualified Change-In-Control (as defined in the plan), you will receive a severance benefit of two times your base salary and bonus. This plan is subject to amendment or termination by Teradata in accordance with the terms of the plan.
Change in Control
 At Teradata Corporation, you will be eligible for the same number of weeks of paid vacation in 2007 as you were while employed by NCR Corporation. Vacation days used at NCR prior to your Start Date will be deducted from your available 2007 vacation time at Teradata.
Vacation
 Effective upon your Start Date and for the remainder of 2007, you will continue to be eligible to receive health care coverage, dental care coverage, short-term and long-term disability coverage, life insurance coverage, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance coverage on substantially similar terms and at the same cost to you as you did while employed by NCR Corporation. You will have the opportunity to change your benefit elections for 2008 through Teradata's flexible benefits program during open enrollment in late 2007.
Health and Welfare Benefits
Additionally, you will be eligible to participate in the Teradata Savings Plan (401(k)) and other programs generally available to U.S. employees of Teradata. Information about each program will be provided in future communications.
 By signing this letter, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a twelve (12) month period after termination of employment for any reason (the "Restricted Period"), you will not yourself or through others, without the prior written consent of the Teradata Board of Directors, (1) render services directly or indirectly to any "Competing Organization" (as defined in this paragraph) involving the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, advertising or servicing of any product, process, system or service upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (2) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata, its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate his or her employment with or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata, its subsidiaries or affiliates; or (3) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment, including customers of Teradata. For purposes of this letter, "Competing
Non-Competition
Organization" means any organization identified by Teradata's CEO each year for purposes of non-competition provisions in Teradata benefit plans that refer to "Competing Organizations," as well as any subsidiaries or affiliates of such companies, even if such subsidiaries or affiliates become stand-alone companies as a result of a spin-off, IPO or similar restructuring transaction. The current list of Competing Organizations is set forth in Attachment A to this letter.
 You agree that during the term of your employment with Teradata and thereafter, you will not, except as you deem necessary in good faith to perform your duties hereunder for the benefit of Teradata or as required by applicable law, disclose to others or use, whether directly or indirectly, any "Confidential Information" regarding Teradata. "Confidential Information" shall mean information about Teradata, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and their respective clients and customers that is not available to the general public or generally known in the industry and that was learned by you in the course of your employment by Teradata, including (without limitation) (i) any proprietary knowledge, trade secrets, ideas, processes, formulas, sequences, developments, designs, assays and techniques, data, formulae, and client and customer lists and all papers, resumes, records (including computer records); (ii) information regarding plans for research, development, new products, marketing and selling, business plans, budgets and unpublished financial statements, licenses, prices and costs, suppliers and customers; (iii) information regarding the skills and compensation of other employees of Teradata, its subsidiaries and affiliates; and (iv) the documents containing such Confidential Information; provided, however, that any provision in any grant or agreement that limits disclosure shall not apply to the extent such information is publicly filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You acknowledge that such Confidential Information is specialized, unique in nature and of great value to Teradata, and that such information gives Teradata a competitive advantage. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason whatsoever, you shall promptly deliver to Teradata all documents, slides, computer tapes, disks and other media (and all copies thereof) containing any Confidential Information.
Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure
 You acknowledge and agree that the time, territory and scope of the post-employment restrictive covenants in this letter (the non-competition, non-solicitation, non-hire, confidentiality and non-disclosure covenants are hereby collectively referred to as the "Restrictive Covenants") are reasonable and necessary for the protection of Teradata's legitimate business interests, and you agree not to challenge the reasonableness of such restrictions. You acknowledge that you have had a full and fair opportunity to be represented by counsel in this matter and to consider these restrictions prior to your execution of this letter. You further acknowledge and agree that you have received sufficient and valuable consideration in exchange for your agreement to the Restrictive Covenants, including but not limited to your salary, equity awards and benefits under this letter, and all other consideration provided to you under this letter. You further acknowledge and agree that if you breach the Restrictive Covenants, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and may not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of any of the Restrictive Covenants, Teradata may, in addition to its other remedies, bring an action or actions for
Breach of Restrictive Covenants
injunction, specific performance, or both, and have entered a temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or order compelling specific performance.
 Any controversy or claim related in any way to this letter or your employment with Teradata (including, but not limited to, any claim of fraud or misrepresentation or any claim with regard to your participation in a Change In Control Severance Plan, if applicable), shall be resolved by arbitration on a de novo standard pursuant to this paragraph and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration shall be held in Dayton, Ohio, before an arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable of employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator shall not have the power to award punitive or exemplary damages. Issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio. Each party shall bear its own attorneys' fees associated with the arbitration and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association; provided, however, that if you are the prevailing party, you shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses incurred in connection with the dispute. If any portion of this paragraph is held to be unenforceable, it shall be severed and shall not affect either the duty to arbitrate or any other part of this paragraph.
Arbitration
The Company agrees to cooperate with you to amend this letter to the extent you deem necessary to avoid imposition of any additional tax under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (and any Department of Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder), but only to the extent such amendment would not have a more than de minimus adverse effect on the Company.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this letter, the Company may withhold from any amounts payable hereunder, or any other benefits received pursuant hereto, such minimum federal, state and/or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld under any applicable law or regulation.
This letter reflects the entire agreement regarding the terms and conditions of your employment. Accordingly, it supersedes and completely replaces any prior oral or written communication on this subject, including all prior agreements on compensation or bonuses (it being understood that this letter will not supersede but will be in addition to any restrictive covenants to which you may otherwise be subject). This letter is not an employment contract, and should not be construed or interpreted as containing any guarantee of continued employment or employment for a specific term. The employment relationship at Teradata is by mutual consent (employment-at-will), and the Company or you may discontinue your employment with or without cause at any time and for any reason or no reason.
Bob, I am excited about the contributions, experience and knowledge you can bring to Teradata. I look forward to you joining my leadership team as we build Teradata's future success.
Sincerely
DatAllegro
Dell Inc.
Fujitsu
Greenplum Network
Hitachi, Ltd.
HP
IBM
Microsoft
Netezza
Oracle Corporation
SAP
SAS
Satyam Computer Services Ltd.
Sun Microsystems
The Tata Group
Unica Corporation (CRM app)
Wipro Technologies
 
 
The above is an estimate only. Actual calculations will be made after September 2007 results are final.

Exhibit 10.3
September 20, 2007
Daniel Harrington
NCR Corporation
Dear Dan:
I am delighted to extend to you an offer of employment with Teradata Corporation as Executive Vice President, Technology and Support Services, effective immediately after Teradata separates from NCR Corporation on October 1, 2007 (your "Start Date"). In this position you will report directly to me and will be considered a Section 16 Officer of Teradata. Other details of this offer are as set forth below.
 Your annual base salary will be Three Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($360,000) per year, commencing on the Start Date. Your base salary will be paid in accordance with the Company's usual payroll practice, which is anticipated to be bi-weekly and one week in arrears.
Annual Base Salary
Your compensation will be reviewed from time to time for adjustment as appropriate in the judgment of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of Teradata's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee").
 You will be eligible to participate in Teradata Corporation's Management Incentive Plan for Executive Officers ("MIP"), which provides year-end incentive awards based on the success of Teradata Corporation in meeting annual performance objectives. You will be eligible for a target award of 75% of your base salary and a maximum award of 150% of your base salary. The actual award payable remains subject to the discretion of the Compensation Committee, and the award for 2007 will be based upon the number of months you are in this position during the year.
Annual Incentive Award
For the portion of 2007 you were employed by NCR Corporation, you will also be paid any amounts due to you under the NCR Sales Compensation Plan.
As part of your previous position, you were eligible for a Revenue Growth Bonus in addition to your NCR Sales Compensation Plan. This bonus was originally designed to award $100,000 (gross) for each 8% of Teradata Division's revenue growth beginning in 2007, continuing for a three year period, with a review at the end of 2009 to determine award continuation. As a result of the spin off and your appointment to your new role at Teradata as Executive Vice President, Technology and Support Services, effective October 1, 2007, you will no longer be eligible for this bonus at the time you assume your new role. However, you will be eligible to receive a revenue growth bonus from NCR that is pro-rated for the first three (3) quarters of 2007 and based on Teradata Division's actual growth results from Q3 2006 to Q3 2007 compared to the 8% growth target. See Attachment B for an example of the calculation methodology.
 Contingent upon your acceptance of this offer, you will be granted an equity award with a total value of $500,000 to be delivered 50% in Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and 50% in Stock Options. The effective date of the grant will be on or as soon as practicable following the Start Date ("Equity Effective Date"). The
Equity Grant
methodology for converting the dollar value of the award into a number of units and options will be provided to you at a later date. This grant will be awarded under the Teradata Stock Incentive Plan which is not effective until Teradata becomes an independent company. Therefore, the grant is also subject to the separation of NCR and Teradata occurring and the Teradata Stock Incentive Plan going into effect.
 In your new position, you will be an eligible participant in Tier II of Teradata's Change in Control Severance Plan for Executive Officers. Subject to the terms and conditions of that plan, in the event of a qualified Change-In-Control (as defined in the plan), you will receive a severance benefit of two times your base salary and bonus. This plan is subject to amendment or termination by Teradata in accordance with the terms of the plan.
Change in Control
 At Teradata Corporation, you will be eligible for the same number of weeks of paid vacation in 2007 as you were while employed by NCR Corporation. Vacation days used at NCR prior to your Start Date will be deducted from your available 2007 vacation time at Teradata.
Vacation
 Effective upon your Start Date and for the remainder of 2007, you will continue to be eligible to receive health care coverage, dental care coverage, short-term and long-term disability coverage, life insurance coverage, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance coverage on substantially similar terms and at the same cost to you as you did while employed by NCR Corporation. You will have the opportunity to change your benefit elections for 2008 through Teradata's flexible benefits program during open enrollment in late 2007.
Health and Welfare Benefits
Additionally, you will be eligible to participate in the Teradata Savings Plan (401(k)) and other programs generally available to U.S. employees of Teradata. Information about each program will be provided in future communications.
 By signing this letter, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a twelve (12) month period after termination of employment for any reason (the "Restricted Period"), you will not yourself or through others, without the prior written consent of the Teradata Board of Directors, (1) render services directly or indirectly to any "Competing Organization" (as defined in this paragraph) involving the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, advertising or servicing of any product, process, system or service upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (2) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata, its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate his or her employment with or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata, its subsidiaries or affiliates; or (3) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment, including customers of Teradata. For purposes of this letter, "Competing Organization" means any organization identified by Teradata's CEO each year for purposes of non-competition provisions in Teradata benefit plans that refer to "Competing Organizations," as well as any subsidiaries or affiliates of such companies, even if such subsidiaries or affiliates become stand-alone companies as a result of a spin-off,
Non-Competition
IPO or similar restructuring transaction. The current list of Competing Organizations is set forth in Attachment A to this letter.
 You agree that during the term of your employment with Teradata and thereafter, you will not, except as you deem necessary in good faith to perform your duties hereunder for the benefit of Teradata or as required by applicable law, disclose to others or use, whether directly or indirectly, any "Confidential Information" regarding Teradata. "Confidential Information" shall mean information about Teradata, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and their respective clients and customers that is not available to the general public or generally known in the industry and that was learned by you in the course of your employment by Teradata, including (without limitation) (i) any proprietary knowledge, trade secrets, ideas, processes, formulas, sequences, developments, designs, assays and techniques, data, formulae, and client and customer lists and all papers, resumes, records (including computer records); (ii) information regarding plans for research, development, new products, marketing and selling, business plans, budgets and unpublished financial statements, licenses, prices and costs, suppliers and customers; (iii) information regarding the skills and compensation of other employees of Teradata, its subsidiaries and affiliates; and (iv) the documents containing such Confidential Information; provided, however, that any provision in any grant or agreement that limits disclosure shall not apply to the extent such information is publicly filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You acknowledge that such Confidential Information is specialized, unique in nature and of great value to Teradata, and that such information gives Teradata a competitive advantage. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason whatsoever, you shall promptly deliver to Teradata all documents, slides, computer tapes, disks and other media (and all copies thereof) containing any Confidential Information.
Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure
 You acknowledge and agree that the time, territory and scope of the post-employment restrictive covenants in this letter (the non-competition, non-solicitation, non-hire, confidentiality and non-disclosure covenants are hereby collectively referred to as the "Restrictive Covenants") are reasonable and necessary for the protection of Teradata's legitimate business interests, and you agree not to challenge the reasonableness of such restrictions. You acknowledge that you have had a full and fair opportunity to be represented by counsel in this matter and to consider these restrictions prior to your execution of this letter. You further acknowledge and agree that you have received sufficient and valuable consideration in exchange for your agreement to the Restrictive Covenants, including but not limited to your salary, equity awards and benefits under this letter, and all other consideration provided to you under this letter. You further acknowledge and agree that if you breach the Restrictive Covenants, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and may not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of any of the Restrictive Covenants, Teradata may, in addition to its other remedies, bring an action or actions for injunction, specific performance, or both, and have entered a temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or order compelling specific performance.
Breach of Restrictive Covenants
 Any controversy or claim related in any way to this letter or your employment with Teradata (including, but not limited to, any claim of fraud or
Arbitration
misrepresentation or any claim with regard to your participation in a Change In Control Severance Plan, if applicable), shall be resolved by arbitration on a de novo standard pursuant to this paragraph and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration shall be held in Dayton, Ohio, before an arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable of employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator shall not have the power to award punitive or exemplary damages. Issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio. Each party shall bear its own attorneys' fees associated with the arbitration and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association; provided, however, that if you are the prevailing party, you shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses incurred in connection with the dispute. If any portion of this paragraph is held to be unenforceable, it shall be severed and shall not affect either the duty to arbitrate or any other part of this paragraph.
The Company agrees to cooperate with you to amend this letter to the extent you deem necessary to avoid imposition of any additional tax under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (and any Department of Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder), but only to the extent such amendment would not have a more than de minimus adverse effect on the Company.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this letter, the Company may withhold from any amounts payable hereunder, or any other benefits received pursuant hereto, such minimum federal, state and/or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld under any applicable law or regulation.
This letter reflects the entire agreement regarding the terms and conditions of your employment. Accordingly, it supersedes and completely replaces any prior oral or written communication on this subject, including all prior agreements on compensation or bonuses (it being understood that this letter will not supersede but will be in addition to any restrictive covenants to which you may otherwise be subject). This letter is not an employment contract, and should not be construed or interpreted as containing any guarantee of continued employment or employment for a specific term. The employment relationship at Teradata is by mutual consent (employment-at-will), and the Company or you may discontinue your employment with or without cause at any time and for any reason or no reason.
Dan, I am excited about the contributions, experience and knowledge you can bring to Teradata. I look forward to you joining my leadership team as we build Teradata's future success.
 
DatAllegro
Dell Inc.
Fujitsu
Greenplum Network
Hitachi, Ltd.
HP
IBM
Microsoft
Netezza
Oracle Corporation
SAP
SAS
Satyam Computer Services Ltd.
Sun Microsystems
The Tata Group
Unica Corporation (CRM app)
Wipro Technologies
 
 
The above is an estimate only. Actual calculations will be made after September 2007 results are final.

Exhibit 10.4
September 20, 2007
Bruce Langos
NCR Corporation
Dear Bruce:
I am delighted to extend to you an offer of employment with Teradata Corporation as Chief Operations Officer, effective immediately after the date Teradata separates from NCR Corporation, October 1, 2007 ("Start Date"). In this position you will report directly to me and will be considered a Section 16 Officer of Teradata. Other details of this offer are as set forth below.
 Your annual base salary will be Three Hundred Sixty Thousand Dollars ($360,000) per year, commencing on the Start Date. Your base salary will be paid in accordance with the Company's usual payroll practice, which is anticipated to be bi-weekly and one week in arrears.
Annual Base Salary
Your compensation will be reviewed from time to time for adjustment as appropriate in the judgment of the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of Teradata's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee").
 You will be eligible to participate in Teradata Corporation's Management Incentive Plan for Executive Officers ("MIP"), which provides year-end incentive awards based on the success of Teradata Corporation in meeting annual performance objectives. You will be eligible for a target award of 75% of your base salary and a maximum award of 150% of your base salary. The actual award payable remains subject to the discretion of the Compensation Committee, and the award for 2007 will be based upon the number of months you are in this position during the year.
Annual Incentive Award
For the portion of 2007 you were employed by NCR Corporation, you will also be paid an annual incentive award under the NCR Management Incentive Plan based on the target percentage, performance measures and results that were in effect during your employment there. The performance measures for this award will be adjusted to reflect the separation of NCR and Teradata.
The stretch objective you were given while at NCR will continue at Teradata for the remainder of 2007, with the target similarly being adjusted to reflect the separation of NCR and Teradata.
The diversity bonus you were eligible for while at NCR will continue at Teradata for the remainder of 2007. The payout will be based on total NCR results at the end of 2007, with Teradata included in those results for the first three quarters of the year, but excluded the last quarter of the year.
 Contingent upon your acceptance of this offer, you will be granted an equity award with a total value of $450,000 to be delivered 50% in Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units and 50% in Stock Options. The effective date of the grant will be on or as soon as practicable following the Start Date ("Equity Effective Date"). The
Equity Grant
methodology for converting the dollar value of the award into a number of units and options will be provided to you at a later date. This grant will be awarded under the Teradata Stock Incentive Plan which is not effective until Teradata becomes an independent company. Therefore, the grant is also subject to the separation of NCR and Teradata occurring and the Teradata Stock Incentive Plan going into effect.
In your new position, you will be an eligible participant in Tier II of Teradata's Change in Control Severance Plan for Executive Officers. Subject to the terms and conditions of that plan, in the event of a qualified Change-In-Control (as defined in the plan), you will receive a severance benefit of two times your base salary and bonus. This plan is subject to amendment or termination by Teradata in accordance with the terms of the plan.
Change in Control
 At Teradata Corporation, you will be eligible for the same number of weeks of paid vacation in 2007 as you were while employed by NCR Corporation. Vacation days used at NCR prior to your Start Date will be deducted from your available 2007 vacation time at Teradata.
Vacation
 Effective upon your Start Date and for the remainder of 2007, you will continue to be eligible to receive health care coverage, dental care coverage, short-term and long-term disability coverage, life insurance coverage, and accidental death and dismemberment insurance coverage on substantially similar terms and at the same cost to you as you did while employed by NCR Corporation. You will have the opportunity to change your benefit elections for 2008 through Teradata's flexible benefits program during open enrollment in late 2007.
Health and Welfare Benefits
Additionally, you will be eligible to participate in the Teradata Savings Plan (401(k)) and other programs generally available to U.S. employees of Teradata. Information about each program will be provided in future communications.
 By signing this letter, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a twelve (12) month period after termination of employment for any reason (the "Restricted Period"), you will not yourself or through others, without the prior written consent of the Teradata Board of Directors, (1) render services directly or indirectly to any "Competing Organization" (as defined in this paragraph) involving the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, advertising or servicing of any product, process, system or service upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (2) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata, its subsidiaries or affiliates to terminate his or her employment with or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata, its subsidiaries or affiliates; or (3) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment, including customers of Teradata. For purposes of this letter, "Competing Organization" means any organization identified by Teradata's CEO each year for purposes of non-competition provisions in Teradata benefit plans that refer to "Competing Organizations," as well as any subsidiaries or affiliates of such companies, even if such subsidiaries or affiliates become stand-alone companies as a result of a spin-off,
Non-Competition
IPO or similar restructuring transaction. The current list of Competing Organizations is set forth in Attachment A to this letter.
 You agree that during the term of your employment with Teradata and thereafter, you will not, except as you deem necessary in good faith to perform your duties hereunder for the benefit of Teradata or as required by applicable law, disclose to others or use, whether directly or indirectly, any "Confidential Information" regarding Teradata. "Confidential Information" shall mean information about Teradata, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and their respective clients and customers that is not available to the general public or generally known in the industry and that was learned by you in the course of your employment by Teradata, including (without limitation) (i) any proprietary knowledge, trade secrets, ideas, processes, formulas, sequences, developments, designs, assays and techniques, data, formulae, and client and customer lists and all papers, resumes, records (including computer records); (ii) information regarding plans for research, development, new products, marketing and selling, business plans, budgets and unpublished financial statements, licenses, prices and costs, suppliers and customers; (iii) information regarding the skills and compensation of other employees of Teradata, its subsidiaries and affiliates; and (iv) the documents containing such Confidential Information; provided, however, that any provision in any grant or agreement that limits disclosure shall not apply to the extent such information is publicly filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). You acknowledge that such Confidential Information is specialized, unique in nature and of great value to Teradata, and that such information gives Teradata a competitive advantage. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason whatsoever, you shall promptly deliver to Teradata all documents, slides, computer tapes, disks and other media (and all copies thereof) containing any Confidential Information.
Confidentiality and Non-Disclosure
 You acknowledge and agree that the time, territory and scope of the post-employment restrictive covenants in this letter (the non-competition, non-solicitation, non-hire, confidentiality and non-disclosure covenants are hereby collectively referred to as the "Restrictive Covenants") are reasonable and necessary for the protection of Teradata's legitimate business interests, and you agree not to challenge the reasonableness of such restrictions. You acknowledge that you have had a full and fair opportunity to be represented by counsel in this matter and to consider these restrictions prior to your execution of this letter. You further acknowledge and agree that you have received sufficient and valuable consideration in exchange for your agreement to the Restrictive Covenants, including but not limited to your salary, equity awards and benefits under this letter, and all other consideration provided to you under this letter. You further acknowledge and agree that if you breach the Restrictive Covenants, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and may not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of any of the Restrictive Covenants, Teradata may, in addition to its other remedies, bring an action or actions for injunction, specific performance, or both, and have entered a temporary restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or order compelling specific performance.
Breach of Restrictive Covenants
 Any controversy or claim related in any way to this letter or your employment with Teradata (including, but not limited to, any claim of fraud or
Arbitration
misrepresentation or any claim with regard to your participation in a Change In Control Severance Plan, if applicable), shall be resolved by arbitration on a de novo standard pursuant to this paragraph and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association. The arbitration shall be held in Dayton, Ohio, before an arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable of employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. The arbitrator shall not have the power to award punitive or exemplary damages. Issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Ohio. Each party shall bear its own attorneys' fees associated with the arbitration and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association; provided, however, that if you are the prevailing party, you shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses incurred in connection with the dispute. If any portion of this paragraph is held to be unenforceable, it shall be severed and shall not affect either the duty to arbitrate or any other part of this paragraph.
The Company agrees to cooperate with you to amend this letter to the extent you deem necessary to avoid imposition of any additional tax under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (and any Department of Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder), but only to the extent such amendment would not have a more than de minimus adverse effect on the Company.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this letter, the Company may withhold from any amounts payable hereunder, or any other benefits received pursuant hereto, such minimum federal, state and/or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld under any applicable law or regulation.
This letter reflects the entire agreement regarding the terms and conditions of your employment. Accordingly, it supersedes and completely replaces any prior oral or written communication on this subject, including all prior agreements on compensation or bonuses (it being understood that this letter will not supersede but will be in addition to any restrictive covenants to which you may otherwise be subject). This letter is not an employment contract, and should not be construed or interpreted as containing any guarantee of continued employment or employment for a specific term. The employment relationship at Teradata is by mutual consent (employment-at-will), and the Company or you may discontinue your employment with or without cause at any time and for any reason or no reason.
Bruce, I am excited about the contributions, experience and knowledge you can bring to Teradata. I look forward to you joining my leadership team as we build Teradata's future success.
DatAllegro
Dell Inc.
Fujitsu
Greenplum Network
Hitachi, Ltd.
HP
IBM
Microsoft
Netezza
Oracle Corporation
SAP
SAS
Satyam Computer Services Ltd.
Sun Microsystems
The Tata Group
Unica Corporation (CRM app)
Wipro Technologies

Exhibit 10.5
December 22, 2008
Robert Fair
Teradata Corporation
Dear Bob:
This letter amends the letter agreement between you and Teradata Corporation ("Teradata") dated September 20, 2007 (the "Agreement") and shall be effective as of December 31, 2008. As we have discussed, the amendment set forth below is necessary in order for the Agreement to comply with the new tax rules imposed under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
 
"at any time from the Start Date through your remaining lifetime (or, if longer, through the 20th anniversary of the Start Date). To the extent that the reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses is considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the reimbursement must be paid as soon as reasonably practicable after, but in any event not later than the end of the calendar year in which, you are declared the prevailing party. The amount of such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and your right to have Teradata pay such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit."
 
Please indicate your acceptance of the amendment to the Agreement by signing below and returning a copy to me.
 

Exhibit 10.6
December 22, 2008
Daniel Harrington
Teradata Corporation
Dear Dan:
This letter amends the letter agreement between you and Teradata Corporation ("Teradata") dated September 20, 2007 (the "Agreement") and shall be effective as of December 31, 2008. As we have discussed, the amendment set forth below is necessary in order for the Agreement to comply with the new tax rules imposed under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
 
"at any time from the Start Date through your remaining lifetime (or, if longer, through the 20th anniversary of the Start Date). To the extent that the reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses is considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the reimbursement must be paid as soon as reasonably practicable after, but in any event not later than the end of the calendar year in which, you are declared the prevailing party. The amount of such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and your right to have Teradata pay such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit."
 
Please indicate your acceptance of the amendment to the Agreement by signing below and returning a copy to me.
 

Exhibit 10.7
December 22, 2008
Bruce Langos
Teradata Corporation
Dear Bruce:
This letter amends the letter agreement between you and Teradata Corporation ("Teradata") dated September 20, 2007 (the "Agreement") and shall be effective as of December 31, 2008. As we have discussed, the amendment set forth below is necessary in order for the Agreement to comply with the new tax rules imposed under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
 
"at any time from the Start Date through your remaining lifetime (or, if longer, through the 20th anniversary of the Start Date). To the extent that the reimbursement for reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses is considered "deferred compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then the reimbursement must be paid as soon as reasonably practicable after, but in any event not later than the end of the calendar year in which, you are declared the prevailing party. The amount of such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any given calendar year shall not affect the attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses that Teradata is obligated to pay in any other calendar year, and your right to have Teradata pay such attorneys' fees and expenses and arbitration expenses may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit."
 
Please indicate your acceptance of the amendment to the Agreement by signing below and returning a copy to me.
 


