FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20110502145635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") of Teradata Corporation ("Teradata" or the "Company") was held on April 26, 2011. At the Annual Meeting, the holders of a total of 140,937,514 shares of the Company's common stock entitled to vote were present in person or represented by proxy, constituting approximately 83.68% of the total shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. Stockholders voted on four matters: a proposal to elect Nancy E. Cooper, David E. Kepler and William S. Stavropoulos as Class I directors, an advisory (non-binding) vote on executive compensation (a "say-on-pay" vote), an advisory (non-binding) vote on the frequency of say-on-pay votes, and a proposal to ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2011. The number of shares voted with respect to each matter required to be reported herein was certified by an independent inspector of elections and is set forth below:
1. Election of Class I Directors for three-year terms expiring at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders and to hold office until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified:
 
2. An advisory (non-binding) vote on executive compensation.
 
3. An advisory (non-binding) vote on frequency of say-on-pay vote.
 
Based on these results, Teradata's Board of Directors has determined that the Company will hold an advisory (non-binding) shareholder vote on the compensation of its executives every year.
4. Ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2011.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


