FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20110804080346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is furnishing the following information as required under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
On August 4, 2011, the Company issued a press release setting forth its second quarter 2011 revenue and earnings per share amounts. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Release on August 4, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 (NYSE: TDC) reported revenue of $581 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, an increase of 24 percent from $470 million in 2010. The second quarter revenue comparison included 6 percentage points of benefit from currency translation.
ATLANTA
Teradata Corporation
(1)
A number of special items were included in Teradata's results reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for the second quarter of 2011, including $28 million of gains from equity investments, which offset $6 million of acquisition-related purchase accounting adjustments; $9 million of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets; $10 million of transaction, integration and reorganization costs; and $8 million of stock-based compensation expense. Included in the prior year quarter's results was $6 million of stock-based compensation expense.
Gross margin in the second quarter was 54.4 percent compared to 57.0 percent in the second quarter of 2010. Excluding the special items mentioned above, gross margin was 55.9 percent in the second quarter of 2011, compared to 57.0 percent in the second quarter of 2010.
(2)
The decrease in non-GAAP gross margin from the strong prior-year period resulted from a significant increase in consulting services revenue which generates lower gross margin than product revenue.
Net income reported for the second quarter of 2011 was $103 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, which compared to net income of $74 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2010. Excluding the special items, non-GAAP EPS was $0.60 in the second quarter of 2011, versus $0.46 in the second quarter of 2010.
(2)
"Teradata has been executing well on our growth strategies, which led to 21 percent revenue growth in the first half of 2011, as well as the highest number of new customer additions in the last ten years," said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata Corporation. "Today's market dynamics favor Teradata, as companies strive to work with increasing volumes and complexities of data to gain new insights for competitive advantage. The Teradata team remains relentlessly focused on serving our customers, accelerating growth, and extending our leadership positions in data warehousing and integrated marketing."
Regional Operating Segment Results
Teradata reports its results in three regional operating segments.
Teradata generated $339 million of revenue in its Americas region in the second quarter of 2011, up 21 percent from $281 million in the second quarter of 2010. Currency translation benefited revenue growth in the Americas by 1 percentage point in the second quarter.
(1)
Gross margin in the Americas region in the second quarter of 2011 was 57.2 percent, versus 60.9 percent achieved in the second quarter of 2010. The decrease in reported gross margin from the strong prior-year period resulted from a significant increase in consulting services revenue which generates lower gross margin than product revenue, as well as lower product gross margin due to deal mix and increased amortization of capitalized software development cost and acquired technology.
Revenue in Teradata's EMEA region in the second quarter of 2011 was $145 million, up 34 percent from $108 million generated in the second quarter of 2010. Currency translation benefited the revenue comparison in the EMEA region by 14 percentage points.
(1)
Gross margin in the EMEA region in the second quarter of 2011 was 52.4 percent, versus 52.8 percent reported in the second quarter of 2010, primarily due to the greater proportion of consulting revenue as compared to the prior-year period.
Teradata generated $97 million of revenue in its APJ region in the second quarter of 2011, a 20 percent increase from $81 million in the second quarter of 2010. The revenue comparison in the APJ region benefited by 12 percentage points from currency translation.
(1)
Gross margin in the APJ region in the second quarter of 2011 was 47.4 percent, compared to 49.4 percent in the second quarter of 2010, as lower services margins were offset in part by a greater proportion of product revenue as compared to the second quarter of 2010.
Operating Income
Second-quarter operating income of $110 million improved from $106 million reported in the second quarter of 2010. Excluding the items previously mentioned, non-GAAP operating income increased 28 percent to $143 million.
(2)
In the quarter, higher revenue more than offset increased selling, general and administrative expense and research and development expense, as well as the inclusion of Aprimo and Aster Data ongoing operating expenses.
Other Items
Other Income of a net $27 million in the quarter included the benefit of $28 million of gains from equity investments.
The effective income tax rate in the second quarter of 2011 was 25 percent, which compared to a 30 percent tax rate in the prior-year period. The lower tax rate in the second quarter of 2011 resulted from a non-taxable equity gain related to Aster Data and a lower mix of U.S.-based earnings, compared to the percentage of income generated internationally.
Cash Flow
During the second quarter of 2011, Teradata generated $179 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $62 million in the prior-year period. The increase in cash from operating activities was primarily benefited from collections of receivables. Capital expenditures in the second quarter totaled $33 million compared to $23 million in the second quarter of 2010. Teradata generated $146 million of free cash flow (cash from operations less capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software)
(3)
 in the second quarter of 2011, versus $39 million in the same period in 2010.
During the first six months of 2011, Teradata generated $285 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $200 million in the prior-year period. Capital expenditures in the first half of 2011 were $60 million, compared to $44 million in the same period in 2010. During the first six months of 2011, Teradata generated $225 million of free cash flow, versus $156 million in the same period in 2010.
 
Balance Sheet
Teradata ended the second quarter of 2011 with $682 million in cash and short-term investments, a $96 million decrease from March 31, 2011, primarily due to acquisition and share
repurchase activity. During the quarter Teradata used $38 million to repurchase approximately 720,000 shares.
As of June 30, 2011, Teradata had total debt of $300 million outstanding under a new 5-year term loan. Additionally, Teradata has $300 million of funds available through a pre-arranged credit facility, however had no borrowings related to the credit facility as of June 30, 2011.
2011 Outlook
Teradata is increasing its expectation for full-year 2011 revenue growth to 18-20 percent. Teradata anticipates that currency fluctuations will benefit the year-over-year revenue comparison by approximately 4 percentage points, based on currency rates on July 29, 2011.
GAAP earnings per share in 2011 is expected to be in the $1.91 to $1.99 range. Teradata is increasing its expectation for full-year non-GAAP EPS guidance to $2.20 to $2.28.
(2)
Teradata excludes gains from equity investments, estimated purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, as well as transaction, integration and reorganization costs to arrive at non-GAAP earnings per share.
2011 Second-Quarter Earnings Conference Call
A conference call is scheduled today at 8:30 a.m. (ET) to discuss the company's second-quarter 2011 results. Access to the conference call, as well as a replay of the call, is available on Teradata's web site at .
www.teradata.com/investor
Supplemental financial information regarding Teradata's operating results is also available on the Investor Relations page of Teradata's web site.
About Teradata
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: ) is the world's largest company focused on raising intelligence through data warehousing, big data analytics and integrated marketing management. Our customers trust Teradata's innovative products and services expertise to deliver measurable business value. Please visit for details.
TDC
teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 
 
The following tables reconcile Teradata's actual and projected results and earnings per diluted share, or EPS, under GAAP to the company's actual and projected non-GAAP results and EPS for the periods presented, which exclude certain items. Our management regularly uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, such as EPS, gross margin and operating income, excluding certain items internally, to understand, manage and evaluate our business and support operating decisions. The company believes such non-GAAP financial measures (1) provide useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the company's ongoing operations, (2) are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations and results, that may be more easily compared to peer companies and allows investors a view to the company's operating results during the integration period of the acquisitions of Aprimo and Aster Data, (3) provide useful information to management and investors regarding present and future business trends, and (4) provide consistency and comparability with past reports and projections of future results.
(a) Earnings Per Share Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures
(b) Gross Margin Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures
 
(c) Operating Income Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Measures
 
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially. In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the global economic environment in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the enterprise data warehousing business, including the increased pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely and successful development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services as well as the reliability, quality and operability of new products because of the difficulty and complexity associated with their testing and production; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; our ability to execute integration plans for newly acquired entities, including the possibility that expected synergies and operating efficiencies may not be achieved, that such integration efforts may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected, and that operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) may be greater than expected following the transaction; recurring revenue may decline or fail to be renewed; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described from time to time in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, as well as the company's annual reports to stockholders The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Schedule A
 
Schedule B
 
Schedule C
 
Schedule D
 


