FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20111103082103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is furnishing the following information as required under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
On November 3, 2011, the Company issued a press release setting forth its third quarter 2011 revenue and earnings per share amounts. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (NYSE: TDC) reported revenue of $602 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, an increase of 23 percent from $489 million in the third quarter of 2010. The year-over-year comparison was benefited by approximately 4 percentage points from currency translation.
ATLANTA
Teradata Corporation
(1)
Special items were included in Teradata's results reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for the third quarter of 2011, including $6 million of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets; $4 million of transaction, integration and reorganization costs; $3 million of acquisition-related purchase accounting adjustments; and $8 million of stock-based compensation expense. Included in the prior year quarter's results was $7 million of stock-based compensation expense.
Gross margin in the third quarter was 54.5 percent compared to 57.1 percent in the third quarter of 2010. Excluding the special items mentioned above, gross margin was 55.4 percent in the third quarter of 2011, compared to 57.3 percent in the third quarter of 2010.
(2)
The decrease in non-GAAP gross margin from the strong prior-year period resulted from a significant increase in our third quarter 2010 consulting services revenue which generates lower gross margin than product revenue. Product gross margin was also lower than the record high product gross margin generated in the third quarter of 2010, which more than offset improved services gross margin in the third quarter of 2011.
Net income reported for the third quarter of 2011 was $87 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, which compared to net income of $75 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, in
the third quarter of 2010. Excluding the special items, non-GAAP EPS was $0.59 in the third quarter of 2011, versus $0.46 in the third quarter of 2010.
(2) 
"We continued to deliver strong operating results in the third quarter, growing revenue 23 percent and earnings per share 28 percent. Based on this performance, we are raising our full-year guidance for both revenue and earnings per share," said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata Corporation.
"Teradata's industry-leading data warehousing, big data analytics, and integrated marketing management solutions are in demand as companies look to cost effectively manage the data explosion and extract new insights from both traditional and new types of data.
"As a result of our growth and continued adoption by new and existing customers we are raising our full year 2011 GAAP earnings per share to the $1.98 to $2.03 range and full-year non-GAAP EPS guidance to the $2.25 to $2.30 range."
(2)
Regional Operating Segment Results
Teradata reports its results in three regional operating segments.
Teradata generated $375 million of revenue in its Americas region in the third quarter of 2011, up 28 percent from $292 million in the third quarter of 2010. Currency translation did not affect revenue growth in the Americas in the third quarter.
(1)
Gross margin in the Americas region in the third quarter of 2011 was 59.5 percent, versus the record high 61.6 percent achieved in the third quarter of 2010. The decrease in reported gross margin from the strong prior-year period resulted from lower product gross margin due to deal mix and increased amortization of capitalized software development cost and acquired technology.
Revenue in Teradata's EMEA region in the third quarter of 2011 was $133 million, up 22 percent from $109 million generated in the third quarter of 2010. Currency translation benefited the revenue comparison in the EMEA region by 8 percentage points.
(1)
Gross margin in the EMEA region in the third quarter of 2011 was 46.6 percent, versus 51.4 percent reported in the third quarter of 2010, primarily due to the greater proportion of consulting revenue as compared to the prior-year period, as well as lower
product gross margin due to deal mix and increased amortization of capitalized software development cost and acquired technology.
Teradata generated $94 million of revenue in its APJ region in the third quarter of 2011, a 7 percent increase from $88 million in the third quarter of 2010. The revenue comparison in the APJ region benefited by 9 percentage points from currency translation.
(1)
Gross margin in the APJ region in the third quarter of 2011 was 45.7 percent, compared to 48.9 percent in the third quarter of 2010. The gross margin decline was driven primarily by strong growth in consulting revenues which generate lower gross margin, as well as from lower product margins.
Operating Income
Third-quarter operating income of $122 million improved from $106 million reported in the third quarter of 2010. Excluding the items previously mentioned, non-GAAP operating income increased 27 percent to $143 million.
(2)
In the quarter, higher revenue more than offset increased selling, general and administrative expense and research and development expense, which now include ongoing operating expenses from recent acquisitions. On a non-GAAP basis, operating margin improved to 23.6 percent, versus 23.1 percent in the third quarter of 2010.
(2)
 
Cash Flow
During the third quarter of 2011, Teradata generated $102 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $65 million in the prior-year period. Capital expenditures in the third quarter totaled $27 million compared to $18 million in the third quarter of 2010. Teradata generated $75 million of free cash flow (cash from operations less capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software)
(3)
 in the third quarter of 2011, a 60 percent increase from $47 million in the same period in 2010.
During the first nine months of 2011, Teradata generated $387 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $265 million in the prior-year period. Capital expenditures in the first nine months of 2011 were $87 million, compared to $62 million in the same period in 2010. During the first nine months of 2011, Teradata generated $300 million of free cash flow, a 48 percent increase from $203 million in the same period in 2010.
(3)
Balance Sheet
Teradata ended the third quarter of 2011 with $691 million in cash, a $9 million increase from June 30, 2011, as cash generated during the quarter more than offset $57 million of cash Teradata used in the third quarter to repurchase approximately 1.1 million shares of its publicly-traded stock.
As of September 30, 2011, Teradata had total debt of $300 million outstanding under a 5-year term loan. Additionally, Teradata has $300 million of funds available through a pre-arranged credit facility, but had no borrowings related to the credit facility as of September 30, 2011.
2011 Outlook
Teradata is increasing its expectation for full-year 2011 revenue growth to 19-21 percent. Teradata anticipates that currency fluctuations will benefit the year-over-year revenue comparison by approximately 3 percentage points, based on currency rates on October 31, 2011.
Teradata is also increasing its expectation for full-year 2011 GAAP earnings per share to the $1.98 to $2.03 range and full-year non-GAAP EPS guidance to the $2.25 to $2.30 range.
(2)
 Teradata excludes gains from equity investments, estimated purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, as well as transaction, integration and reorganization costs to arrive at non-GAAP earnings per share.
2011 Third-Quarter Earnings Conference Call
A conference call is scheduled today at 8:30 a.m. (ET) to discuss the company's third-quarter 2011 results. Access to the conference call, as well as a replay of the call, is available on Teradata's web site at .
www.teradata.com/investor
Supplemental financial information regarding Teradata's operating results is also available on the Investor Relations page of Teradata's web site.
About Teradata
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world's leading analytic data solutions company focused on integrated data warehousing, big data analytics, and business applications. Teradata's innovative products and services deliver integration and insight to empower organizations to achieve competitive advantage. Visit teradata.com for details.
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 
 
 
The following tables reconcile Teradata's actual and projected results and earnings per diluted share, or EPS, under GAAP to the company's actual and projected non-GAAP results and EPS for the periods presented, which exclude certain items. Our management regularly uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, such as EPS, gross margin and operating income, excluding certain items internally, to understand, manage and evaluate our business and support operating decisions. The company believes such non-GAAP financial measures (1) provide useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the company's ongoing operations, (2) are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations and results, that may be more easily compared to peer companies and allow investors a view to the company's operating results during the integration period of the acquisitions of Aprimo and Aster Data, (3) provide useful information to management and investors regarding present and future business trends, and (4) provide consistency and comparability with past reports and projections of future results.
 
 
 
 
 
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially. In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the global economic environment in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the enterprise data warehousing business, including the increased pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely and successful development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services as well as the reliability, quality and operability of new products because of the difficulty and complexity associated with their testing and production; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; our ability to execute integration plans for newly acquired entities, including the possibility that expected synergies and operating efficiencies may not be achieved, that such integration efforts may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected, and that operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) may be greater than expected following the transaction; recurring revenue may decline or fail to be renewed; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described from time to time in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, as well as the company's annual reports to stockholders. The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Schedule A
 
Schedule B
 
Schedule C
 
Schedule D
 


