FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20110505073741.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is furnishing the following information as required under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
On May 5, 2011, the Company issued a press release setting forth its first quarter 2011 revenue and earnings per share amounts. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
 
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Release on May 5, 2011
 
 
 
 
 Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) reported revenue of $506 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, an increase of 18 percent from $429 million in 2010. The first quarter revenue comparison included 2 percentage points of benefit from currency translation.
ATLANTA
(1)
Included in Teradata's results reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) for the first quarter of 2011 was $6 million of acquisition-related purchase accounting adjustments in connection with the acquisition of Aprimo, Inc. (Aprimo), $7 million of transaction, integration and reorganization costs, $3 million of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets and $9 million of stock-based compensation expense. Teradata's 2010 first quarter results included $5 million of stock-based compensation expense.
Gross margin in the first quarter was 54.3 percent compared to 55.0 percent in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding the items mentioned above, gross margin was 55.7 percent in the first quarter of 2011, an increase from 55.2 percent in the first quarter of 2010.
(2)
The increase in non-GAAP gross margin from the strong prior-year period resulted from an increase in product gross margin, which was somewhat offset by a decrease in consulting services gross margin as Teradata invests to grow its consulting services business to meet market demand.
Net income reported for the first quarter of 2011 was $65 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, which compared to net income of $67 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding the special items, non-GAAP EPS was $0.48 in the first quarter of 2011, versus $0.41 in the first quarter of 2010.
(2)
"Teradata is off to a strong start in 2011 with first quarter revenue growth of 18 percent," said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata. "Corporations are faced with the challenge of managing and extracting value from data that continues to grow exponentially. In addition, the new data elements coming from sources such as web interactions, social media, mobile computing, and sensors are providing new opportunities for businesses to innovate and compete with analytics. This is placing extreme requirements on data warehouses to scale and manage complexity like we have never seen before - which is where Teradata excels."
Regional Operating Segment Results
Teradata reports its results in three regional operating segments.
Teradata generated $307 million of revenue in its Americas region in the first quarter of 2011, up 22 percent from $252 million in the first quarter of 2010. Currency translation benefited revenue growth in the Americas by 1 percentage point in the first quarter.
 (1)
Gross margin in the Americas region in the first quarter of 2011 was 57.0 percent, versus 57.9 percent achieved in the first quarter of 2010. The gross margin decline from the strong prior-year period resulted from lower consulting margin due to headcount additions to meet increased demand, which was offset in part by higher product margin as compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Revenue in Teradata's EMEA region in the first quarter of 2011 was $125 million, up 18 percent from $106 million generated in the first quarter of 2010. Currency translation benefited the revenue comparison in the EMEA region by 3 percentage points.
 (1)
Gross margin in the EMEA region in the first quarter of 2011 was 56.0 percent, up from 53.8 percent reported in the first quarter of 2010 due to a higher product gross margin, which was offset somewhat by lower consulting gross margin resulting from head count additions to meet increased demand.
Teradata generated $74 million of revenue in its APJ region in the first quarter of 2011, a 4 percent increase from $71 million in the first quarter of 2010. The revenue comparison in the APJ region benefited by 7 percentage points from currency translation.
 (1)
Gross margin in the APJ region in the first quarter of 2011 was 40.5 percent, compared to 46.5 percent in the first quarter of 2010. Gross margin declined in the quarter due to a greater proportion of services revenue (as compared to product revenue) which has a lower gross margin than product revenue, as well as lower consulting margins, versus the prior-year period.
Operating Income
First-quarter operating income of $91 million improved from $86 million reported in the first quarter of 2010. Excluding the items previously mentioned, non-GAAP operating income increased 27 percent to $116 million.
(2)
In the quarter, higher revenue more than offset increased investment in selling, general and administrative expense and research and development expense, as well as the inclusion of Aprimo operating expenses.
Other Items
The effective income tax rate in the first quarter of 2011 was 28 percent, which compared to a 22 percent tax rate in the prior-year period. The tax rate in the first quarter of 2010 benefited from the recognition of certain foreign net operating loss carry-forwards resulting from an audit settlement in the first quarter of 2010.
Cash Flow
During the first quarter of 2011, Teradata generated $106 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $138 million in the prior-year period. The decrease in cash from
operating activities was primarily due to the timing of transactional activity. Capital expenditures in the first quarter totaled $27 million compared to $21 million in the first quarter of 2010. Teradata generated $79 million of free cash flow (cash from operations less capital expenditures for property and equipment and additions to capitalized software)
(3)
 in the first quarter of 2011, versus $117 million in the same period in 2010.
 
Balance Sheet
Teradata ended the first quarter of 2011 with $778 million in cash and short-term investments, a $105 million decrease from December 31, 2010. As of March 31, 2011, Teradata had total debt of $300 million under its revolving credit facility.
On January 21, 2011, Teradata completed its acquisition of Aprimo and funded the purchase by using $200 million of net cash and by drawing-down the full $300 million borrowing capacity from the Company's existing revolving credit facility.
Subsequent to the end of the first quarter, Teradata completed its acquisition of Aster Data Systems, Inc (Aster Data) on April 5, 2011. Teradata funded the purchase of Aster Data by utilizing funds from a new $300 million long-term loan facility, which is not reflected in the Teradata's balance sheet as of March 31, 2011.
Also subsequent to March 31, 2011, the Company repaid $280 million of the $300 million previously drawn on the revolving credit facility largely from cash collected from accounts receivables in April.
2011 Outlook
Teradata is increasing its expectation for full-year 2011 revenue growth to 14-16 percent. Teradata anticipates that currency fluctuations will benefit the year-over-year revenue comparison by approximately 4 percentage points, based on currency rates on April 29, 2011.
GAAP earnings per share in 2011 is expected to be in the $1.76 to $1.86 range. Due to Teradata's increased expectation for full-year revenue growth, the company now expects it will be able to more than absorb the anticipated $0.03 of EPS dilution from the acquisition of Aster Data and therefore is increasing its prior 2011 non-GAAP EPS guidance to $2.13 to $2.23. Teradata excludes estimated purchase accounting adjustments, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, as well as transaction, integration and reorganization costs to arrive at non-GAAP earnings per share.
2011 First-Quarter Earnings Conference Call
A conference call is scheduled today at 8:30 a.m. (ET)to discuss the company's first-quarter 2011 results. Access to the conference call, as well as a replay of the call, is available on Teradata's web site at .
www.teradata.com/investor
Supplemental financial information regarding Teradata's operating results is also available on the Investor Relations page of Teradata's web site.
About Teradata
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world's leader in and through its , , and . For more information, visit .
data warehousing
integrated marketing management
database software
data warehouse appliances
enterprise analytics
teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 
 
Schedule E of this earnings release, as well as the following table reconciles Teradata's actual and projected results and earnings per diluted share, or EPS, under GAAP to the company's actual and projected non-GAAP results and EPS for the periods presented, which exclude certain items. Our management regularly uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, such as EPS, gross margin and operating income excluding certain items, internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and support operating decisions. The company believes such non-GAAP financial measures (1) provide useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the company's ongoing operations, (2) are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations and results, that may be more easily compared to peer companies and allows investors a view to the company's operating results during the integration period of the acquisitions of Aprimo and Aster Data, (3) provide useful information to management and investors regarding present and future business trends, and (4) provide consistency and comparability with past reports and projections of future results.
 
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially. In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the global economic environment in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the enterprise data warehousing business, including the increased pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely and successful development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products
and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services as well as the reliability, quality and operability of new products because of the difficulty and complexity associated with their testing and production; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; our ability to execute integration plans for newly acquired entities, including the possibility that expected synergies and operating efficiencies may not be achieved, that such integration efforts may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected, and that operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) may be greater than expected following the transaction; recurring revenue may decline or fail to be renewed; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described from time to time in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, as well as the company's annual reports to stockholders The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 


