FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20121101080459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2 below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company is furnishing the following information as required under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K and Item 7.01 "Regulation FD Disclosure." Such information, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
On November 1, 2012, the Company issued a press release setting forth its third quarter 2012 revenue and earnings per share amounts. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and hereby incorporated by reference.
 
The information set forth above under Item 2.02 "Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01 and Exhibit 99.1 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01.
 
(d) Exhibits:
The following exhibits are attached with this current report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Release on November 1, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) today reported revenue of $647 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, an increase of 7 percent from $602 million in the third quarter of 2011.
ATLANTA
In constant currency, revenue increased 10 percent from the third quarter of 2011, in line with management's expectations.
(1)
Gross margin of 55.8 percent, as reported under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), improved 130 basis points from the third quarter of 2011. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding the special items and stock-based compensation expense described in footnote #2,
(2)
gross margin was 56.9 percent, a 150 basis point improvement from 55.4 percent in the third quarter of 2011. The increase in gross margin was driven by leverage from revenue growth as well as a favorable product revenue mix.
Stock-based compensation expense and special items had a $15 million negative impact on Teradata's third quarter 2012 net income as reported under GAAP.
(2)
Teradata reported GAAP net income of $104 million, or $0.60 per diluted share, which compared to GAAP net income of $87 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2011. Excluding stock-based compensation expense and the special items detailed in footnote #2,
(2)
non-GAAP net income in the third quarter of 2012 was $119 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, versus $101 million, or $0.59 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2011.
(2)
"In Q3, Teradata continued to deliver solutions that create value for our customers and solid financial results for Teradata, given the macro-economic environment, said Mike Koehler, president and chief executive officer of Teradata Corporation. "Teradata's competitive position has never been stronger, and we are well positioned with our market-leading technology and solutions in
three growing and strategic marketsdata warehousing, big data analytics and integrated marketing management."
Regional Revenue Performance
(in millions)
 
 
Operating Income
Third-quarter operating income of $143 million increased from $122 million reported in the third quarter of 2011. On a non-GAAP basis, operating income of $166 million increased 16 percent from the third quarter of 2011.
(2)
Higher revenue as well as favorable product revenue mix more than offset the increased investment in selling expense.
Cash Flow
Teradata generated $107 million of cash from operating activities, compared to $102 million in the prior-year period. Teradata generated $67 million of free cash flow (cash from operating activities less capital expenditures and additions to capitalized software)
(3)
in the third quarter of 2012, versus $75 million in the same period in 2011. The decline in free cash flow was due to increased investments in property and equipment, and capitalized software development expenses.
Year-to-date, Teradata generated $451 million of cash from operating activities, a $64 million increase from $387 million generated in the first nine months of 2011. Teradata generated $342 million of free cash flow
(3)
in the first nine months of 2012, a $42 million increase from the same period in 2011.
Balance Sheet
Teradata ended the third quarter of 2012 with $909 million in cash, an $88 million increase from June 30, 2012.
As of September 30, 2012, Teradata had total debt of $292 million outstanding under a term loan. Additionally, Teradata has $300 million available through a pre-arranged credit facility; however, no funds were drawn from the credit facility.
2012 Outlook
Teradata now expects full-year 2012 revenue growth, on a reported basis, to be at the low end of its previous guidance range of 12-14 percent. On a constant currency basis, Teradata expects revenue growth to be at the low end of its prior guidance range of 14-16 percent.
Teradata expects full-year 2012 GAAP earnings per share to be in the middle to the higher end of its previous range of $2.34 to $2.44. Excluding stock-based compensation expense and special items, non-GAAP EPS for 2012 is expected to be in the middle to the higher end of its prior guidance range of $2.72 to $2.82.
(2)
2012 Third-Quarter Earnings Conference Call
A conference call is scheduled today at 8:30 a.m. (ET) to discuss the company's third-quarter 2012 results. Access to the conference call, as well as a replay of the call, is available on Teradata's web site at .
www.teradata.com/investor
Supplemental financial information regarding Teradata's operating results is also available on the Investor Relations page of Teradata's web site.
About Teradata
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the world's leading analytic data solutions company, focused on integrated data warehousing, big data analytics, and business applications. Teradata's innovative products and services deliver data integration and business insight to empower organizations to make the best decisions possible for competitive advantage. Visit for details.
teradata.com
Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.
 
 
Special items included in Teradata's third quarter GAAP operating income results as reported in this release included $11 million of amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets; $2 million of acquisition transaction and integration expenses; and $10 million of stock-based compensation expense.
The following tables reconcile Teradata's actual and projected results and EPS, under GAAP to the company's actual and projected non-GAAP results and EPS for the periods presented, which exclude certain items. Our management regularly uses supplemental non-GAAP financial measures, such as gross margin, operating income, net income and EPS, excluding certain items internally, to understand, manage and evaluate our business and support operating decisions. The company believes such non-GAAP financial measures (1) provide useful information to investors regarding the underlying business trends and performance of the company's ongoing operations, (2) are useful for period-over-period comparisons of such operations and results, that may be more easily compared to peer companies and allow investors a view of the company's operating results excluding special items, (3) provide useful information to management and investors regarding present and future business trends, and (4) provide consistency and comparability with past reports and projections of future results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note to Investors
This news release contains forward-looking statements, including statements as to anticipated or expected results, beliefs, opinions and future financial performance, within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements include projections of revenue, profit growth and other financial items, future economic performance and statements concerning analysts' earnings estimates, among other things. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Teradata's actual results to differ materially. In addition to the factors discussed in this release, other risks and uncertainties could affect our future results, and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in such forward-looking statements. Such factors include those relating to: the global economic environment in general or on the ability of our suppliers to meet their commitments to us, or the timing of purchases by our current and potential customers, and other general economic and business conditions; the rapidly changing and intensely competitive nature of the information technology industry and the data warehousing business, including the increased pressure on price/performance for data warehousing solutions; fluctuations in our operating results, unanticipated delays or accelerations in our sales cycles and the difficulty of accurately estimating revenues; risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, including the impact of economic, political, legal, regulatory, compliance, cultural, foreign currency fluctuations and other conditions abroad; the timely and successful development, production or acquisition and market acceptance of new and existing products and services, including our ability to accelerate market acceptance of new products and services as well as the reliability, quality and operability of new products because of the difficulty and complexity associated with their testing and production; tax rates; turnover of workforce and the ability to attract and retain skilled employees; availability and successful exploitation of new acquisition and alliance opportunities; our ability to execute integration plans for newly acquired entities, including the possibility that expected synergies and operating efficiencies may not be achieved, that such integration efforts may be more difficult, time-consuming or costly than expected, and that operating costs, customer loss and business disruption (including, without limitation, difficulties in maintaining relationships with employees, customers, clients or suppliers) may be greater than expected following the transaction; recurring revenue may decline or fail to be renewed; changes in Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the resulting impact, if any, on the company's accounting policies; continued efforts to establish and maintain best-in-class internal information technology and control systems; and other factors described from time-to-time in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q, as well as the company's annual reports to stockholders. The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Schedule A
 
 
Schedule B
 
 
Schedule C
 
 
Schedule D
 
 


