FILE:TDC/TDC-8K-20120426172956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) . On April 20, 2012, the stockholders of Teradata Corporation (the "Company" or "Teradata"), upon recommendation of the Teradata Board of Directors (the "Board"), approved the Teradata 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (the "2012 SIP"). The 2012 SIP replaces the Teradata Corporation 2007 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the "2007 SIP"). No further awards will be made under the 2007 SIP; however, awards granted under the 2007 SIP prior to stockholder approval of the 2012 SIP will remain outstanding in accordance with their terms. The 2012 SIP is described in our 2012 Proxy Statement, and the full text of the 2012 SIP, attached as Appendix A to our 2012 Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference.
2012 Stock Incentive Plan
. At its meeting on April 19, 2012, the Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Board approved the forms of stock option agreement, restricted share unit agreement and performance-based restricted share unit agreement to be used in connection with awards made under the 2012 SIP. Copies of the forms of these agreements are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.2, 10.3, and 10.4, respectively, and hereby incorporated by reference.
Form of Award Agreements
 
On January 31, 2012, the Board approved the Amended and Restated By-Laws of the Company (the "Amended By-Laws"), to become effective April 20, 2012. Certain of such amendments (the "Conditional Amendments") were subject to and were to become effective only upon the approval of amendments to the Company's certificate of incorporation by the Company's stockholders at the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 20, 2012. The proposed amendments to the Company's certificate of incorporation, which required the affirmative vote of stockholders holding at least 80% of the outstanding common stock, were not approved at the annual meeting. Accordingly, the adoption of the Amended By-Laws, without the Conditional Amendments, became effective as of April 20, 2012 (the "Effective Date").
Pursuant to the changes to the Amended By-Laws that were adopted as of the Effective Date, the Board:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This summary should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Amended By-Laws that were adopted as of the Effective Date, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
Teradata's Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") was held on April 20, 2012. At the Annual Meeting, the holders of a total of 141,513,749 shares of the Company's common stock entitled to vote were present in person or represented by proxy, constituting approximately 84.1% of the total shares issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. Stockholders voted on four matters: a proposal to elect Michael F. Koehler, James M. Ringler and John G. Schwarz as Class II directors, a proposal to approve the Teradata 2012 Stock Incentive Plan, a proposal to approve the Teradata Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated, an advisory (non-binding) vote on executive compensation (a "say-on-pay" vote), the approval of an amendment of the Company's certificate of incorporation to provide for the annual election of directors, and a proposal to ratify the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for 2012. The number of shares voted with respect to each matter required to be reported herein was certified by an independent inspector of elections and is set forth below:
1. Election of Class II Directors for three-year terms expiring at the 2015 annual meeting of stockholders and to hold office until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified:
 
2. The approval of the Teradata 2012 Stock Incentive Plan.
 
3. The approval of the Teradata Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated.
 
4. An advisory (non-binding) vote on executive compensation.
 
5. The approval of an amendment of the Company's certificate of incorporation to provide for the annual election of directors.
 
6. Ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as independent registered public accounting firm for 2012.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1. . The registered office of the Corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware.
Registered Office
Section 2. . The Corporation may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
Other Offices
Section 1. . Meetings of the stockholders for the election of directors or for any other purpose shall be held at such time and place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Place of Meetings
Section 2. . The annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. any other proper business may be transacted at the annual meeting of stockholders.
Annual Meetings
Subject to the other provisions of these By-Laws,
Section 3. . Unless otherwise required by law or by the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as amended and restated from time to time (the "Certificate of Incorporation"), special meetings of stockholders, for any purpose or purposes, may be called by either the (i) Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, or (ii) the Chief Executive Officer, and shall be called by the Chief Executive Officer at the request in writing made pursuant to a resolution of (a) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors or (b) a committee of the Board of Directors that has been duly designated by the Board of Directors and whose powers and authority include the power to call such meetings. Such request shall state the purpose or purposes of the proposed meeting. The ability of the stockholders to call a special meeting of stockholders is hereby specifically denied. At a special meeting of stockholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall be specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto).
Special Meetings
Section 4. . Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed present in person and vote at such meeting. Unless otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, written notice of any meeting shall be given either personally, by mail or by electronic transmission (if permitted under the circumstances by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "DGCL")) not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. If notice is given by means of electronic transmission, such notice shall be deemed to be given at the times provided in the DGCL.
Notice
notice of and to
as of the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting
Section 5. . Any meeting of the stockholders may be adjourned from time to time to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof, and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting, are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting, the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days, If after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, notice of adjourned meeting in accordance with Section and
Adjournments
or
a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
for stockholders entitled to vote
the Board of Directors shall fix a new record date for
the
such
the requirements of
4 hereof shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to notice of
213 of DGCL,
to vote at the meeting.
shall give notice of the adjourned meeting to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such adjourned meeting as of the record date fixed for notice of such adjourned meeting.
Section 6. . Unless otherwise required by applicable law or the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the Corporation's capital stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders. Where a separate vote by a class or classes or series is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of such class or classes or series present in person or by proxy shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter. If, however, such quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, either the chairman of the meeting or the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, in the manner provided in Section 5 hereof, until a quorum shall be present or represented. A quorum, once established, shall not be broken by the withdrawal of enough votes to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum
Section 7. . Unless otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any question brought before any meeting of the stockholders,
Voting
 
other than the election of directors, shall be decided by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on such question, voting as a single class. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder represented at a meeting of the stockholders shall be entitled to cast one (1) vote for each share of the capital stock entitled to vote thereat held by such stockholder. Such votes may be cast in person or by proxy as in Section 8 of this Article II. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, or the officer of the Corporation presiding at a meeting of the stockholders, in such officer's discretion, may require that any votes cast at such meeting shall be cast by written ballot.
provided
permitted
Section 8. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner by ) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
Proxies
granted
other
prescribed
permitted
the DGCL
applicable law
Section 9. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation, and, as specified by the Certificate of Incorporation, the ability of the stockholders to consent in writing to the taking of any action is specifically denied.
No Consent of Stockholders in Lieu of Meeting
Section 10. . The officer of the Corporation who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten (10) days before every meeting of the stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting: (i) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting, or (ii) during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines to make the list available on an electronic network, the Corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to stockholders of the Corporation. If the meeting is to be held at a place, then the shall be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be examined by any stockholder who is present. If the meeting is to be held solely by means of remote communication, then the list shall also be open to the examination of any stockholder during the whole time of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
provided, however, if the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote is less than ten (10) days before the meeting date, the list shall reflect the stockholders entitled to vote as of the tenth day before the meeting date,
Nothing contained in this paragraph shall require the Corporation to include electronic mail addresses or other electronic contact information on such list.
a list of stockholders entitled to vote at
list
meeting
Section 11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of
Record Date
or to vote at
the
 
Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for
If the Board of Directors so fixes a date, such date shall also be the record date for
determining the stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting unless the Board of Directors determines, at the time it fixes such record date, that a later date on or before the date of the meeting shall be the date for making such determination.
or
and
the
the
the adjourned meeting.
determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting, and in such case shall also fix as the record date for stockholders entitled to notice of such adjourned meeting the same or an earlier date as that fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this paragraph at the adjourned meeting.
Section 12. . The stock ledger of the Corporation shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by Section 10 of this Article II or the books of the Corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of the stockholders.
Stock Ledger
Section 13. . The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall act as chairman of meetings of the stockholders. The Board of Directors may designate any other officer or director of the Corporation to act as chairman of any meeting in the absence of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors may further provide for determining who shall act as chairman of any stockholders meeting in the absence of the Chairman and such designee. The Board of Directors of the Corporation may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of any meeting of the stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the chairman of any meeting of the stockholders shall have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the chairman of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) the determination of when the polls shall open and close for any given matter to be voted on at the meeting; (iii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iv) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the chairman of the meeting shall determine; (v) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (vi) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The chairman of the meeting shall have the power to adjourn the meeting to another place, date and time.
Organization and Conduct of Meetings
Section 14. . In advance of any meeting of the stockholders, the Board of Directors, by resolution, the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One
Inspectors of Election
 
or more other persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of the stockholders, the chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Unless otherwise required by applicable law, inspectors may be officers, employees or agents of the Corporation. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of inspector, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of such inspector's ability. The inspector shall have the duties prescribed by law and shall take charge of the polls and, when the vote is completed, shall make a certificate of the result of the vote taken and of such other facts as may be required by applicable law.
Section 15. . No business may be transacted at an annual meeting of stockholders, other than business that is either (a) specified in the Corporation's proxy materials with respect to such meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), (b) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof), or (c) otherwise properly brought before the annual meeting by any stockholder of the Corporation (i) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 15 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such annual meeting, (ii) who is entitled to vote at such annual meeting and (iii) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 15. In addition to the other requirements set forth herein, a stockholder may not transact any business at an annual meeting unless (A) such stockholder, and any beneficial owner on whose behalf such business is proposed, acted in a manner consistent with the representation made in the Business Solicitation Representation, as defined herein and (B) such business is a proper matter for stockholder action under Delaware law. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing clause (c) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to propose business (other than business included in the Corporation's proxy materials pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (such act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, the "Exchange Act")) at an annual meeting of stockholders.
Nature of Business at Meetings of Stockholders
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the one-year anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is convened more than 30 days before or more than days after such anniversary date, or if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever mailing or public disclosure occurs first. In no event shall an adjournment of an annual meeting, or a postponement of an annual meeting for which notice has been given, or the public disclosure thereof, commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. For purposes of
provided
however
60
30
this Section
 
, (x) the term "public disclosure" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and (y) the Corporation's annual meeting in 2007 shall be deemed to have occurred on April 26, 2007.
15 and Section 16
these By-Laws
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (i) as to each matter such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf such proposal is made (each, a "party") proposes to bring before the annual meeting a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (ii) the name and address of each such party, (iii) (A) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record by each such party (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class or series of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by each such party, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which either party has a right to vote, directly or indirectly, any shares of any security of the Corporation, (D) any short interest in any security of the Corporation held by each such party (for purposes of this Section 15 a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially directly or indirectly by each such party that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which either party is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that each such party is directly or indirectly entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of each such party's immediate family sharing the same household (which information set forth in this clause (iii) shall be supplemented by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, as the case may be, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date); (iv) a description of all arrangements or understandings between each such party and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder and any material interest of each such party in such business, (v) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the annual meeting to bring such business before the meeting and (vi) a representation (a "Business Solicitation Representation") whether or not either party will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to the holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's voting shares required under applicable law to adopt such proposed business.
,
 
No business shall be conducted at the annual meeting of stockholders except business brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 15. If the chairman of an annual meeting determines that business was not properly brought before the annual meeting in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the business was not properly brought before the meeting and such business shall not be transacted.
Section 16. . Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the following procedures shall be eligible for election as directors of the Corporation, except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right, if any, of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at any annual meeting of stockholders, or at any special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (or any duly authorized committee thereof) or (ii) by any stockholder of the Corporation (a) who is a stockholder of record on the date of the giving of the notice provided for in this Section 16 and on the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting, (b) who is entitled to vote at such meeting and (c) who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 16. In addition to the other requirements set forth herein, a stockholder may not present a nominee for election at an annual or special meeting unless such stockholder, and any beneficial owner on whose behalf such nomination is made, acted in a manner consistent with the representations made in the Nominee Solicitation Representation, as defined herein. For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing clause (ii) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations for director election at a meeting of stockholders (except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation with respect to the right, if any, of holders of preferred stock of the Corporation to nominate and elect a specified number of directors in certain circumstances).
Nomination of Directors
In addition to any other applicable requirements, for a nomination to be made by a stockholder, such stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in proper written form to the Secretary of the Corporation.
To be timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation (i) in the case of an annual meeting, not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the one-year anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that the annual meeting is convened more than 30 days before or more than days after such anniversary date, or if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the meeting was made, whichever mailing or public disclosure occurs first; and (ii) in the case of a special meeting of stockholders called for the purpose of electing directors, not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which notice of the date of the special meeting was mailed or public disclosure of the date of the special meeting was made, whichever occurs first. In no event shall an adjournment of an annual or special meeting, or a postponement of such a meeting for which
provided
however
60
30
 
notice has been given, or the public disclosure thereof, commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors is increased and there is no public disclosure naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation on or before the tenth day before a stockholder's notice of nomination must be delivered to the Corporation in accordance with the preceding paragraph, a stockholder's notice required by this Section shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day after the day on which such public disclosure is first made by the Corporation.
To be in proper written form, a stockholder's notice to the Secretary must set forth (i) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (a) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (b) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (c) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock (if any) of the Corporation which are owned, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record by the person and (d) any other information relating to the person that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors required pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder; and (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf such nomination is made (each, a "party") (a) the name and address of each such party, (b)(1) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record by each such party, (2) any Derivative Instrument directly or indirectly owned beneficially by each such party, and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (3) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which either party has a right to vote, directly or indirectly, any shares of any security of the Corporation, (4) any short interest in any security of the Corporation held by each such party (for purposes of this Section 16, a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (5) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially directly or indirectly by each such party that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (6) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which either party is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (7) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that each such party is directly or indirectly entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of each such party's immediate family sharing the same household (which information set forth in this clause (b) shall be supplemented by such stockholder or such beneficial owner, as the case may be, not later than ten (10) days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date); (c) a description of all arrangements or understandings between each such party and each
 
proposed nominee and any other person or persons (including their names) pursuant to which the nomination(s) are to be made, (d) a representation that such stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to nominate the persons named in its notice, (e) a representation (a "Nominee Solicitation Representation") whether either party will deliver a proxy statement and form of proxy to a sufficient number of holders of the Corporation's voting shares reasonably believed by such party to elect its nominee or nominees and (f) any other information relating to each such party that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of directors pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. Such notice must be accompanied by a written consent of each proposed nominee to being named as a nominee and to serve as a director if elected.
,
No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the Corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 16. If the chairman of the meeting determines that a nomination was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures, the chairman shall declare to the meeting that the nomination was defective and such defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 15 and this Section 16, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in such sections. Nothing in such sections shall be deemed to affect any rights (i) of to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
stockholders
any record or beneficial owner of stock
Section 1. . The number of members of the Board of Directors shall be fixed, from time to time, exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors, subject to the rights of the holders of Preferred Stock, if any. Except as provided in Section 2 of this Article III, other than in a Contested Election of Directors (as defined below), directors shall be elected by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. In a Contested Election of Directors, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast on the election of directors. The term "Contested Election of Directors" shall mean an annual or special meeting of the Corporation with respect to which (i) the Secretary of the Corporation receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated or intends to nominate a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Article II, Section 16 of these By-Laws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the tenth day before the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders. Stockholders shall be entitled to cast votes "against" nominees for director unless plurality voting applies in the election of directors.
Number and Election of Directors
 
A director shall hold office until the annual meeting for the year in which his or her term expires and thereafter until his or her successor shall be elected and shall qualify, subject, however, to prior death, resignation, retirement, disqualification or removal from office. Directors need not be stockholders. The directors shall be divided into three classes, designated Class I, Class II and Class III. Each class shall consist, as nearly as may be possible, of one-third of the total number of directors constituting the entire Board of Directors. The initial division of the members of the Board of Directors into classes shall be made by the decision of the affirmative vote of a majority of the entire Board of Directors. The term of the initial Class I directors shall terminate on the date of the 2008 annual meeting; the term of the initial Class II directors shall terminate on the date of the 2009 annual meeting; and the term of the initial Class III directors shall terminate on the date of the 2010 annual meeting. At each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders beginning in 2008, successors to the class of directors whose term expires at that annual meeting shall be elected for a three-year term. If the number of directors is changed, any increase or decrease shall be apportioned among the classes so as to maintain the number of directors in each class as nearly equal as possible, and any additional director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class, but in no case will a decrease in the number of directors shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Section 2. . Subject to the terms of any one or more classes or series of Preferred Stock, any vacancy on the Board of Directors that results from an increase in the number of directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, that a quorum is present, and any other vacancy occurring on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the Board of Directors then in office, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director. Any director of any class elected to fill a vacancy resulting from an increase in the number of directors of such class shall hold office for a term that shall coincide with the remaining term of that class. Any director elected to fill a vacancy not resulting from an increase in the number of directors shall have the same remaining term as that of his predecessor.
Vacancies
to applicable law and
only
provided
only
, whether
or otherwise,
Section 3. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors which may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
Duties and Powers
Section 4. . The Board of Directors may hold meetings, both regular and special, either within or without the State of Delaware. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and at such place as may from time to time be determined by the Board of Directors. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman, if there be one, or the Chief Executive Officer or a majority of the entire Board of Directors, and shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as they or he or she shall specify. Notice thereof stating the place, date and hour of the meeting shall be given to each director either by mail posted not less than five (5) days before the date of the meeting, by telephone, email, facsimile or telegram or other means of electronic communication delivered or sent not less than twelve (12) hours before the date and time of the meeting, or on such shorter notice as the person or persons calling such meeting may deem necessary or appropriate in the
Meetings
 
circumstances. Unless otherwise indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting, irrespective of whether such business is set forth in such notice.
Section 5. . At each meeting of the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or, in his or her absence, a director chosen by a majority of the directors present, shall act as chairman. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at each meeting of the Board of Directors. In case the Secretary shall be absent from any meeting of the Board of Directors, an Assistant Secretary shall perform the duties of secretary at such meeting; and in the absence from any such meeting of the Secretary and all the Assistant Secretaries, the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
Section 6. . Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time, by giving notice in writing to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time therein specified or upon the conditions therein specified or, if no time or conditions are specified, immediately; and, unless otherwise specified in such notice, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Except as otherwise required by applicable law and subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of shares of preferred stock then outstanding, any may be removed from office at any time, but only for cause, and only by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding capital stock entitled to vote at an election of directors.
Resignations and Removals of Directors
director or the entire Board of Directors
or all of the directors of the Corporation
Section 7. . Except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, at all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting of the time and place of the adjourned meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum
Section 8. . Unless otherwise the Certificate of Incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Actions of the Board by Written Consent
provided in
restricted by
or these By-Laws
,
the
or by electronic transmission
or electronic transmission or transmissions
,
. Such filing shall be in paper form if the minutes are maintained in paper form and shall be in electronic form if the minutes are maintained in electronic form
Section 9. . Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear
Meetings by Means of Conference Telephone
 
each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 9 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 10. . The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of any such committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, and in the absence of a designation by the Board of Directors of an alternate member to replace the absent or disqualified member, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any absent or disqualified member. Any committee, to the extent permitted by law and provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Each committee shall keep regular minutes and report to the Board of Directors when required.
Committees
A majority of any committee may determine its and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 4 of this Article. The Board of Directors shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board of Directors from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; , , that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board of Directors.
action
procedures
provided
however
Section 11. . The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary for service as director, payable in cash or securities. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed compensation for service as committee members.
Compensation
like
No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his successor, his death, his resignation or his removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Section 12. . No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because any such director's or officer's vote is counted for such purpose if: (i) the material facts as to the director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the
Interested Directors
 
Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or (ii) the material facts as to the director's or officer's relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Section 1. . The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall be a Chief Executive Officer, President, a Secretary and a Treasurer. The Board of Directors, in its discretion, also may choose a Chairman of the Board of Directors (who must be a director), a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors (who must be a director) and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders of the Corporation nor, except in the case of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, need such officers be directors of the Corporation.
General
Section 2. . The Board of Directors, at its first meeting held after each annual meeting of stockholders, as necessary, shall elect the officers of the Corporation who shall hold their offices for such terms and shall exercise such powers and perform such duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors; and each officer of the Corporation shall hold office until such officer's successor is elected and qualified, or until such officer's earlier death, resignation or removal. Any officer may be removed at any time by the Board of Directors or, except in the case of an officer elected by the Board, by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors. The salaries of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
Election
No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his successor, his death, his resignation or his removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Section 3. . Powers of attorney, proxies, waivers of notice of meeting, consents and other instruments relating to securities owned by the Corporation may be executed in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation by the Chief Executive Officer, President or any Vice President or any other officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors and any such officer may, in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation, take all such action as any such officer may deem advisable to vote in person or by
Voting Securities Owned by the Corporation
 
proxy at any meeting of security holders of any corporation in which the Corporation may own securities and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all rights and power incident to the ownership of such securities and which, as the owner thereof, the Corporation might have exercised and possessed if present. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, from time to time confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Section 4. . The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors shall perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board of Directors
stockholders and of the
Section 5. . The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, if there be one, shall assume all of the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors assigned by these By-Laws in the event of the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors
Section 6. . The Chief Executive Officer shall, subject to the control of the Board of Directors, have general supervision of the business of the Corporation and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect. The Chief Executive Officer execute all bonds, mortgages, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation requiring a seal, under the seal of the Corporation, except where required by law to be otherwise signed and executed and except that the other officers of the Corporation may sign and execute documents when so authorized by these By-Laws, the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer. The Chief Executive Officer shall also perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as may from time to time be assigned to such officer by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors.
Chief Executive Officer
shall
may
or permitted
, employees and agents
by or in accordance with a resolution adopted by
by or in accordance with a resolution adopted by
Section 7. . At the request of the Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of the Chief Executive Officer, or in the event of his or her inability or refusal to act, the President shall perform the duties of the Chief Executive Officer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon such office. The President shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as the Board of Directors from time to time may prescribe, and shall, in general, have such other duties and responsibilities as are assigned consistent with the authority of a President of a corporation.
President
Section 8. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
Vice Presidents
Section 9. . The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the stockholders and record all the proceedings thereat in a book or books to be kept for that purpose; the Secretary shall also perform like duties for committees of the Board of Directors when required. The Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall
Secretary
 
perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer, under whose supervision the Secretary shall be. If the Secretary shall be unable or shall refuse to cause to be given notice of all meetings of the stockholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and if there be no Assistant Secretary, then either the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer may choose another officer to cause such notice to be given. The Secretary shall have custody of the seal of the Corporation and the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, if there be one, shall have authority to affix the same to any instrument requiring it and when so affixed, it may be attested by the signature of the Secretary or by the signature of any such Assistant Secretary. The Board of Directors may give general authority to any other officer to affix the seal of the Corporation and to attest to the affixing by such officer's signature. The Secretary shall see that all books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept or filed are properly kept or filed, as the case may be.
Section 10. . The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation and shall deposit all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors. The Treasurer shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and the Board of Directors, at its regular meetings, or when the Board of Directors so requires, an account of all transactions as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the Corporation.
Treasurer
Section 11. . Assistant Secretaries, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Secretary, and in the absence of the Secretary or in the event of the Secretary's inability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Secretary, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Secretary.
Assistant Secretaries
Section 12. . Assistant Treasurers, if there be any, shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, President, any Vice President, if there be one, or the Treasurer, and in the absence of the Treasurer or in the event of the Treasurer's inability or refusal to act, shall perform the duties of the Treasurer, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of and be subject to all the restrictions upon the Treasurer.
Assistant Treasurers
Section 13. . Such other officers as the Board of Directors may choose shall perform such duties and have such powers as from time to time may be assigned to them by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may delegate to any other officer of the Corporation the power to choose such other officers and to prescribe their respective duties and powers.
Other Officers
The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officers, employees or agents, notwithstanding any provision of these By-Laws.
 
Section 1. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, each class or series of the shares of capital stock in the Corporation shall be issued in uncertificated form pursuant to the customary arrangements for issuing shares in such form. Shares shall be transferable only on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by attorney upon presentment of proper evidence of succession, assignation or authority to transfer in accordance with the customary procedures for transferring shares in uncertificated form.
Uncertificated Shares
Section 2. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Dividend Record Date
Section 3. . The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise required by law.
Record Owners
Section 4. . The Corporation may from time to time maintain one or more transfer offices or agencies and registry offices or agencies at such place or places as may be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors.
Transfer and Registry Agents
Section 1. . Whenever written notice is required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, to be given to any director or member of a committee of the Board of Directors, such notice may be given either personally, by mail, facsimile, telegraph or other means of electronic communication or by other lawful means. Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to stockholders, any notice to stockholders may be given by electronic transmission in the manner provided in Section 232 of the DGCL.
Notices
Section 2. . Whenever any notice is required by applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws to be given to any director, member of a
Waivers of Notice
,
 
committee of the Board of Directors or stockholder, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to notice, or a waiver by electronic transmission by the person or persons entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent thereto. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where the person attends the meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of stockholders or any regular or special meeting of the directors or a committee of the Board of Directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws.
Section 1. . Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the requirements of the DGCL and the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors (or any action by written consent in lieu thereof in accordance with Section 8 of Article III hereof), and may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, deems proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies, or for purchasing any of the shares of capital stock, warrants, rights, options, bonds, debentures, notes, scrip or other securities or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for any proper purpose, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve.
Dividends
Section 2. . All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate.
Disbursements
Section 3. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the 31
Fiscal Year
st
day of December in each year, or on such other day as may be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 4. . The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Corporate Seal
Section 1. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings other than Those by or in the Right of the Corporation
 
shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation), by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (whether the basis of such action, suit or proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving in such official capacity), against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines and amounts paid in settlement actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe such person's conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that such person's conduct was unlawful.
Section 2. . Subject to Section 3 of this Article VIII, the Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (whether the basis of such action, suit or proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving in such official capacity), against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if such person acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation; except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (the "Delaware Court") or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court or such other court shall deem proper.
Power to Indemnify in Actions, Suits or Proceedings by or in the Right of the Corporation
Section 3. . To obtain indemnification under this By-Law, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Any indemnification under this Article VIII (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the present or former director or officer is proper in the circumstances
Authorization of Indemnification
 
because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Such determination shall be made, with respect to a person who is a director or officer at the time of such determination, (i) by a majority vote of the directors who are not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of such directors designated by a majority vote of such directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no such directors, or if such directors so direct, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion or (iv) by the stockholders. Such determination shall be made, with respect to former directors and officers, by any person or persons having the authority to act on the matter on behalf of the Corporation. To the extent, however, that a present or former director or officer of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding described above, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, such person shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by such person in connection therewith, without the necessity of authorization in the specific case.
Section 4. . Notwithstanding any contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII, and notwithstanding the absence of any determination thereunder, any present or former director or officer may apply to the Delaware Court for indemnification to the extent otherwise permissible under Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII if a claim for indemnification is not paid in full by the Corporation within 60 days after a written claim therefor has been received by the Corporation. The basis of such indemnification by the Delaware Court shall be a determination by such court that indemnification of the present or former director or officer is proper in the circumstances because such person has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII, as the case may be. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a defense to such application or create a presumption that the present or former director or officer seeking indemnification has not met any applicable standard of conduct. In any such action, the Corporation shall bear the burden of proving that the present or former director or officer is not entitled to indemnification. Notice of any application for indemnification pursuant to this Section 4 shall be given to the Corporation promptly upon the filing of such application. To the fullest extent permitted by law, if successful, in whole or in part, the present or former director or officer seeking indemnification shall also be entitled to be paid the expense of prosecuting such application.
Indemnification by a Court
Section 5. . Expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by a present or former director or officer in defending any civil, criminal, administrative or investigative action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Article VIII. Such expenses (including attorneys' fees) incurred by other employees or agents may be so paid upon such terms and conditions, if any, as the Corporation deems appropriate. If a claim for advancement of expenses pursuant hereto is not paid in full within 60 days of a request therefor, a present or former director or officer may bring an action in the Delaware Court to recover the unpaid amount of such claim. To the fullest extent permitted by law, if successful in whole or in part in any such
Expenses Payable in Advance
 
action, such person shall be entitled to be paid also the expenses of prosecuting such action. The Corporation shall bear the burden of proving that such person is not entitled to an advancement of his or her expenses.
The Corporation may bring an action in the Delaware Court to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, but the Corporation shall bear the burden of establishing that it is entitled to recover such expenses because the present or former director or officer who received such advancement of expenses has not met the applicable standard of conduct for indemnification set forth in Section 1 or 2 (as applicable) of this Article VIII. Neither a contrary determination in the specific case under Section 3 of this Article VIII nor the absence of any determination thereunder shall be a presumption that the present or former director or officer against whom the action is brought has not met any applicable standard of conduct. To the fullest extent permitted by law, if such present or former director or officer is successful in whole or in part in defending any such action, such person shall be entitled to be paid also the expenses of defending such suit.
Section 6. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification or advancement of expenses may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation, these By-Laws, any statute, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in such person's official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office. The provisions of this Article VIII shall not be deemed to preclude the indemnification of any person who is not specified in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article VIII but whom the Corporation has the power or obligation to indemnify under the provisions of the DGCL, or otherwise.
Nonexclusivity of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
Section 7. . The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against such person and incurred by such person in any such capacity, or arising out of such person's status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power or the obligation to indemnify such person against such liability under the provisions of this Article VIII.
Insurance
Section 8. . For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "the Corporation" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors or officers, so that any person who is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation, or is or was a director or officer of such constituent corporation serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Article VIII with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as such person would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued. The term "another enterprise" as used in this Article VIII shall mean any other
Certain Definitions
 
corporation or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which such person is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent. For purposes of this Article VIII, references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Corporation" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation" as referred to in this Article VIII.
Section 9. . The indemnification and advancement of expenses provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Article VIII shall, unless otherwise provided when authorized or ratified, continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person. No repeal or modification of this Article VIII shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
Survival of Indemnification and Advancement of Expenses
Section 10. . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Article VIII to the contrary, except for proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification (which shall be governed by Section 4 of this Article VIII) or advancement of expenses, the Corporation shall not be obligated to indemnify any director or officer (or his or her heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives) or advance expenses in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person unless such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized or consented to by the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Limitation on Indemnification
Section 1. . The affirmative vote of at least a majority of the entire Board of Directors shall be required to adopt, amend, alter or repeal the Corporation's By-Laws. The Corporation's By-Laws also may be adopted, amended, altered or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least two-thirds of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, except that unless approved by a majority of the entire Board of Directors the affirmative vote of the holders of at least eighty percent (80%) of the voting power of the shares of capital stock of the Corporation outstanding and entitled to vote thereon shall be required to amend, alter, change or repeal, or to adopt any provision as part of these By-Laws inconsistent with the purpose and intent of any provision of any of Article II, Section 3, 9, 13, 15 or 16 or Article III, Section 1, 2 or 6, Article VIII and Article IX of these By-Laws.
Amendments
 
Section 2. . As used in this Article IX and in these By-Laws generally, the term "entire Board of Directors" means the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies.
Entire Board of Directors
* * *
Adopted as of:
December 2, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
You have been granted an option (the "Option") under the Teradata 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to purchase from Teradata a number of shares of common stock of Teradata ("Shares") at the price per Share as described on the stock option information page on the website of Teradata's third party Plan administrator, subject to the terms and conditions of this Stock Option Agreement (this "Agreement") and the Plan. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1. Your right to exercise this Option will expire on the tenth (10
th
) anniversary (the "Expiration Date") of the date of grant of this Option (the "Date of Grant"), unless sooner terminated due to the termination of your employment as described below. If the Expiration Date falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, it will be deemed to occur on the next following business day.
2. This Option will vest, and the vested Shares ("Option Shares") may be exercised, in equal annual installments (subject to mathematical rounding performed by Teradata's third party Plan administrator) over the four year period commencing on the Date of Grant, such that all of the shares represented by this Option shall be vested on the fourth anniversary of the Date of Grant. This vesting schedule is contingent upon your continuous employment with Teradata or any of its affiliate companies (collectively referred to in this Agreement as "Teradata") as of and until each of the vesting dates. In the event your employment with Teradata terminates prior to the fourth (4
th
) anniversary of the Date of Grant, except as otherwise provided below, this Option will terminate with respect to the then unvested portions.
3. This Option will vest in full if you (a) die while actively employed by Teradata, or (b) cease to be actively employed by Teradata as a result of a disability for which you qualify for benefits from the Teradata Long-Term Disability Plan or another long-term disability plan sponsored by Teradata ("Disability"). In such cases, this Option may be exercised until the later of (x) the third (3
rd
) anniversary of the date of death or Disability, or (y) the Expiration Date.
4. If you voluntarily terminate employment with Teradata due to Retirement (as defined in this Section 4), the unvested portion of this Option will terminate and be forfeited, and the vested portion may be exercised until the earlier of (a) the third (3
rd
) anniversary of your Retirement, or (b) the Expiration Date. For purposes of this Agreement, "Retirement" means termination by you of employment at or after age 55 other than, if applicable to you, for Good Reason (as described below) following a Change in Control.
5. Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event a Change in Control occurs and this Option award is not assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, the Option shall vest immediately prior to the Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control wherein this Option award is assumed, if Teradata terminates your employment other than for Cause or Disability during the twenty-four (24) months following the Change in Control, this Option shall vest in full immediately upon your termination of employment, and the Option shall remain exercisable until the later of (a) the earlier of the one (1) year anniversary of your termination of employment or the Expiration Date, or (b) the applicable date determined under Sections 3 and 4 above. If you are a participant in the Teradata Change in Control Severance Plan, a Teradata Severance Policy or a similar arrangement that defines "Good Reason" in the context of a resignation following a Change in Control and you terminate your employment for Good Reason as so defined within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, this Option shall vest immediately upon your termination of employment, and the Option Shares shall remain exercisable until the earlier of (a) the Expiration Date, or (b) the first anniversary of your termination of employment.
6. If your Teradata employment is involuntarily terminated for Cause at any time, this Option will automatically terminate and all unexercised vested and unvested Option Shares will be forfeited and will not be exercisable as of the date of such termination. Further, if your employment is terminated by Teradata for Cause, then, to the extent demanded by the Committee in its sole discretion, you shall (a) return to Teradata all Option Shares that you have not disposed of that have been acquired pursuant to this Agreement, in exchange for payment by Teradata of any amount actually paid by you for the Option Shares; and (b) with respect to any Option Shares acquired pursuant to this Agreement that you have disposed of, pay to Teradata in cash the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of such Option Shares on the date acquired, over (ii) any amount actually paid by you for the Option Shares.
7. In the event of termination of your employment with Teradata for any other reason, including but not limited to reduction-in-force, this Option will automatically terminate, any unvested Option Shares will be forfeited and the vested portion of this Option may be exercised no later than the earlier of (a) the 59
th
day after the date of termination of your employment, or (b) the Expiration Date.
8. In the event that you die after your termination of employment by Teradata, but while this Option remains exercisable, this Option may be exercised, by your beneficiary or heir, until the one (1) year anniversary of the date of your death, regardless of the Expiration Date.
9. By accepting this award, except to the extent that disclosure is required by applicable law or regulation, you agree to keep this Agreement confidential and not to disclose its contents to anyone except your attorney, your immediate family, or your financial consultant, provided such persons agree in advance to keep such information confidential and not to disclose it to others. The Option will be forfeited if you violate the terms of this Section 9.
10. This Option will be cancelled if the Committee determines that you engaged in misconduct in connection with your employment with Teradata.
11. This Option shall be exercised in accordance with procedures established by the administrator of Teradata's stock option program, including broker-assisted cashless exercises. In countries where deemed mandatory, upon exercise, the purchase price will be paid by simultaneous sale of the Option Shares exercised, in such a manner that Teradata is not subject to taxation upon grant of the option award. Any taxes required by law to be withheld or paid with respect to exercise of this Option shall be deducted from the proceeds of the Option exercise. If Teradata or the administrator of the stock option program is unable to withhold required taxes from the proceeds of the Option exercise, you or your legal representative or beneficiary will be required to pay such amounts, and Teradata may take any action necessary to satisfy such obligation, including but not limited to withholding cash from compensation otherwise due to you or your beneficiary, or withholding from the Option Shares exercised such numbers of Option Shares as it, in its sole discretion, shall determine to be required to satisfy such withholding requirements.
12. Within a reasonable period after any vested portion of this Option is exercised, Teradata will instruct its Transfer Agent and/or third party Plan administrator to credit you or your successor with the number of Option Shares you exercised. Neither you nor your legal representative shall be, or have any of the rights and privileges of, a stockholder of Teradata in respect of any Shares purchasable upon the exercise of this Option, in whole or in part, unless and until Teradata credits you with, or causes a credit to you of, such Option Shares.
13. This Option is not transferable by you other than by beneficiary designation, will or the laws of descent and distribution, and during your lifetime this Option may be exercised only by you or your guardian or legal representative.
14. You may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive all or part of this Option in case of your death, and you may change or revoke such designation at any time. In the event of your death, any portion
 
of this Option that is subject to such a designation will be distributed to such beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance with this Agreement. Any other portion of this Option not designated by you shall be distributable to your estate. If there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder, the Option Shares in question may be purchased by and distributed to your estate, in which event Teradata shall have no further liability to anyone with respect to such Option Shares.
15. In exchange for this Option, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a period of twelve (12) months after termination of your Teradata employment (or if applicable law mandates a maximum time that is shorter than twelve months, then for a period of time equal to that shorter maximum period), regardless of the reason for termination, you will not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata, (a) render services directly or indirectly to, or become employed by, any Competing Organization (as defined in this Section 15) to the extent such services or employment involves the development, manufacture, marketing, advertising, sale or servicing of any product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to, or competes with, a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers and upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (b) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata to terminate his or her employment with Teradata or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata; or (c) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the preceding two (2) years while employed by Teradata, including customers of Teradata. If you breach the terms of this Section 15, you agree that in addition to any liability you may have for damages arising from such breach, this Option will be immediately cancelled, all vested and unexercised Option Shares shall be forfeited, and you will pay to Teradata the difference between the exercise price and the Fair Market Value on the date of exercise of any Option Shares received in connection with the exercise of this Option on or after the date which is twelve (12) months prior to the date of the breach.
As used in this Section 15, "Competing Organization" means an organization identified as a Competing Organization by the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata at the beginning of the year in which your employment with Teradata terminates, and any other person or organization which is engaged in or about to become engaged in research on or development, production, marketing, leasing, selling or servicing of a product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to or competes with a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers. The list of Competing Organizations identified by the Chief Executive Officer is maintained by the Teradata Law Department.
16. By accepting this Option, you agree that, where permitted by local law, any controversy or claim arising out of or related to your employment relationship with Teradata shall be resolved by arbitration. If you are employed in the United States, the arbitration shall be pursuant to the Teradata dispute resolution policy and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association and shall be held in the city of the location of the headquarters of Teradata. If you are employed outside the United States, where permitted by local law, the arbitration shall be conducted in the regional headquarters city of the business unit in which you work. The arbitration shall be held before a single arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable in employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. For arbitrations held in the United States, issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state in which the headquarters of Teradata is located. Each party shall bear its own attorney's fees associated with the arbitration and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association for an arbitration held in the United States, or similar applicable rules for an arbitration held outside the United States.
 
Notwithstanding the preceding subparagraph, you acknowledge that if you breach Section 15, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and will not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of Section 15 Teradata may, in addition to any other remedies available to it, bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for equitable relief to preserve the status quo pending appointment of an arbitrator and completion of an arbitration. You stipulate to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state and federal courts located in the location from which Teradata's Option program is administered for any such proceedings.
17. By accepting this award, you acknowledge and agree that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, you may be required to forfeit or repay any or all of the Option Shares pursuant to the terms of the Teradata Corporation Compensation Recovery Policy (or a successor policy), as the same may be amended to comply with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or any rules or regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission rule or applicable securities exchange.
18. The provisions of this Agreement are severable. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable or invalid by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction (including an arbitration tribunal), it shall be severed and shall not affect any other part of this Agreement, which will be enforced as permitted by law.
19. The terms of this Option as evidenced by this Agreement may be amended by the Teradata Board of Directors or the Committee at any time.
20. This Option and the number and kind of Shares covered by this Agreement shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14 of the Plan.
21. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon you any right with respect to continuance of employment by Teradata, nor limit or affect in any manner the right of Teradata to terminate your employment or adjust your compensation.
22. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail, except that with respect to matters involving choice of law the terms and conditions of Section 16 of this Agreement shall prevail.
23. By accepting any benefit under this Agreement, you and each person claiming under or through you shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated their acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan and any action taken under this Agreement or the Plan by the Committee, the Board or Teradata, in any case in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
24. Teradata may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by Teradata or a third party designated by Teradata.
 

Exhibit 10.3
You have been awarded a number of restricted Share Units (the "Share Units") under the Teradata 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), as described on the restricted share unit information page on the website of Teradata's third party Plan administrator, subject to the terms and conditions of this Restricted Share Unit Agreement (this "Agreement") and the Plan. Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
1. The Share Units will become non-forfeitable ("Vested") on the third anniversary of the Date of Grant (the "Vesting Date"), provided that you are continuously employed by Teradata or any of its affiliate companies (referred to collectively herein as "Teradata") until the Vesting Date.
2. If your employment with Teradata terminates prior to your Vesting Date due to (i) your death, or (ii) cessation of active employment by Teradata as a result of a disability for which you qualify for benefits under the Teradata Long-Term Disability Plan or another long-term disability plan sponsored by Teradata ("Disability"), then, upon such termination of employment, your Share Units will become fully Vested. If your employment with Teradata terminates prior to your Vesting Date due to (a) your Retirement, or (b) reduction-in-force; then, upon such termination of employment, a pro rata portion of the Share Units will become fully Vested. For purposes of this Agreement, "Retirement" means termination by you of your employment with Teradata (other than, if applicable to you, for Good Reason (as described below) following a Change in Control) at or after age 55 with the consent of the Compensation & Human Resource Committee of the Teradata Board of Directors (the "Committee"). The pro rata portion of the Share Units that will become fully Vested will be determined by multiplying the total number of the Share Units awarded pursuant to this Agreement by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full and partial months of employment that you completed after the date of grant of this award (the "Date of Grant"), and the denominator of which is the total number of months during the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on your Vesting Date.
Notwithstanding any provision in this Agreement to the contrary, in the event a Change in Control occurs and this restricted Share Unit award is not assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, the Share Units shall become fully Vested immediately prior to the Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control wherein this restricted Share Unit award is assumed, if your employment is terminated by Teradata other than for Cause or Disability during the twenty-four (24) months following the Change in Control, the Share Units shall become fully Vested immediately upon your termination of employment. If you are a participant in the Teradata Change in Control Severance Plan, a Teradata Severance Policy or a similar arrangement that defines "Good Reason" in the context of a resignation following a Change in Control and you terminate your employment for Good Reason as so defined within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, the Share Units shall become fully Vested immediately upon your termination of employment.
3. Except as may be otherwise provided in this Section 3, when Vested, the Share Units will be paid to you within 30 days after the Vesting Date in Shares (such that one Share Unit equals one Share) or, in Teradata's sole discretion, in an amount of cash equal to the Fair Market Value of such number of Shares as of the Vesting Date (or such earlier date upon which the Share Units have become Vested pursuant to Section 2 of this Agreement), or a combination thereof.
To the extent that the Share Units become Vested pursuant to Section 2 of this Agreement and your right to receive payment of Vested Share Units constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then payment of such Share Units shall be subject to the following
rules: (i) the Share Units will be paid to you within 30 days after the earlier of (a) your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, or (b) the Vesting Date; (ii) notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Share Units become payable as a result of your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code (other than as a result of death), and you are a "specified employee" as determined under Teradata's policy for determining specified employees on the date of separation from service, the Share Units shall be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following your "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code; and (iii) Teradata may, in its sole discretion and to the extent permitted by Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(j)(4)(ix)(B), terminate this Agreement and pay all outstanding Share Units to you within 30 days before or 12 months after a "change in the ownership," a "change in the effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of Teradata within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
4. By accepting this award, unless disclosure is required by applicable law or regulation, you agree to keep this Agreement confidential and not to disclose its contents to anyone except your attorney, your immediate family, or your financial consultant, provided such persons agree in advance to keep such information confidential and not disclose it to others. The Share Units will be forfeited if you violate the terms and conditions of this Section 4.
5. At all times before your Vesting Date, the Share Units may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated, except by beneficiary designation, will or by the laws of descent and distribution upon your death. As soon as practicable after your Vesting Date, if Share Units are to be paid in the form of Shares, Teradata will instruct its Transfer Agent and/or its third party Plan administrator to record on your account the number of Shares underlying the number of Share Units to be paid to you in Shares and such Shares will be freely transferable.
6. Any cash dividends declared before your Vesting Date on the Shares underlying the Share Units shall not be paid currently, but shall be converted into additional Share Units. Any Share Units resulting from such conversion (the "Dividend Units") will be considered Share Units for purposes of this Agreement and will be subject to all of the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth herein. As of each date that Teradata would otherwise pay the declared dividend on the Shares underlying the Share Units (the "Dividend Payment Date") in the absence of the reinvestment requirements of this Section 6, the number of Dividend Units will be determined by dividing the amount of dividends otherwise attributable to the Share Units but not paid on the Dividend Payment Date by the Fair Market Value of Teradata's common stock on the Dividend Payment Date.
7. Teradata has the right to deduct or cause to be deducted from, or collect or cause to be collected, with respect to the taxation of any Share Units, any federal, state, local, foreign or other taxes required by the laws of the United States or any other country to be withheld or paid with respect to the Share Units, and you or your legal representative or beneficiary will be required to pay any such amounts. By accepting this award, you consent and direct that, if you are paid through Teradata's United States payroll system at the time the Share Units vest, Teradata's stock plan administrator may withhold or sell the number of Share Units from your award as Teradata, in its sole discretion, deems necessary to satisfy such withholding requirements. If you are paid through a non-United States Teradata payroll system, you agree that Teradata may satisfy any withholding obligations by withholding cash from your compensation otherwise due to you or by any other action as it may deem necessary to satisfy any withholding obligation.
8. The Share Units will be forfeited if your employment is terminated by Teradata for Cause or if the Committee determines that you engaged in misconduct in connection with your employment with Teradata. Further, if your employment is terminated by Teradata for Cause, then, to the extent demanded
 
by the Committee in its sole discretion, you shall (a) return to Teradata all Shares that you have not disposed of that have been acquired pursuant to this Agreement, and (b) with respect to any Shares acquired pursuant to this Agreement that you have disposed of, pay to Teradata in cash the Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date acquired.
9. In exchange for the Share Units, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a period of twelve (12) months after the termination of employment (or if applicable law mandates a maximum time that is shorter than twelve months, then for a period of time equal to that shorter maximum period), regardless of the reason for termination, you will not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata, (a) render services directly or indirectly to, or become employed by, any Competing Organization (as defined in this Section 9 below) to the extent such services or employment involves the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, advertising or servicing of any product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to, or competes with, a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers and upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (b) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata to terminate his or her employment with or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata; or (c) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the preceding two (2) years while employed by Teradata, including customers of Teradata. If you breach the terms of this Section 9, you agree that in addition to any liability you may have for damages arising from such breach, any unvested Share Units will be immediately forfeited, and you agree to pay to Teradata the Fair Market Value of any Share Units that Vested or cash paid to you in lieu of such Share Units during the twelve (12) months prior to the date of your termination of employment. Such Fair Market Value shall be determined as of your Vesting Date.
As used in this Section 9, "Competing Organization" means an organization identified as a Competing Organization by the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata for the year in which your employment with Teradata terminates, and any other person or organization which is engaged in or about to become engaged in research on or development, production, marketing, leasing, selling or servicing of a product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to or competes with a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers. The list of Competing Organizations identified by the Chief Executive Officer is maintained by the Teradata Law Department.
10. By accepting this award, you agree that, where permitted by local law, any controversy or claim arising out of or related to your employment relationship with Teradata shall be resolved by first exhausting any Teradata internal dispute resolution process and policy, and then by arbitration pursuant to such policy. If you are employed in the United States, the arbitration shall be pursuant to the Teradata dispute resolution policy and the then current rules of the American Arbitration Association and shall be held in the city of the location of the headquarters of Teradata. If you are employed outside the United States, where permitted by local law, the arbitration shall be conducted in the regional headquarters city of the business unit in which you work. The arbitration shall be held before a single arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable in employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. For arbitrations held in the United States, issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state in which the headquarters of Teradata is located. Each party shall bear its own attorney's fees associated with the arbitration, and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association for an arbitration held in the United States, or similar applicable rules for an arbitration held outside the United States.
 
Notwithstanding the preceding subparagraph, you acknowledge that if you breach Section 9, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and will not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of Section 9 Teradata may, in addition to any other remedies available to it, bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for equitable relief to preserve the status quo pending appointment of an arbitrator and completion of an arbitration. You stipulate to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state and federal courts located in the location from which Teradata's equity program is administered, for any such proceedings.
11. You may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive all or part of any Share Units to be distributed in case of your death, and you may change or revoke such designation at any time. In the event of your death, any Share Units distributable hereunder that are subject to such a designation will be distributed to such beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance with this Agreement. Any other Share Units not designated by you will be distributable to your estate. If there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder, the Share Units in question may be transferred to your estate, in which event Teradata will have no further liability to anyone with respect to such Share Units.
12. The provisions of this Agreement are severable. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable or invalid by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction (including an arbitration tribunal), it shall be severed and shall not affect any other part of this Agreement, which will be enforced as permitted by law.
13. The terms of this award of Share Units as evidenced by this Agreement may be amended by the Teradata Board of Directors or the Committee.
14. The number of Share Units and the number and kind of Shares covered by this Agreement shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14 of the Plan.
15. In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail, except that with respect to matters involving choice of law the terms and conditions of Section 10 of this Agreement shall prevail.
16. You shall not possess any incidents of ownership (including, without limitation, dividend and voting rights) in the Shares underlying the Share Units until such Shares have been delivered to you in accordance with Section 3 of this Agreement. The obligations of Teradata under this Agreement will be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of Teradata to deliver Shares in the future following Vesting of the Share Units, and your rights will be no greater than those of an unsecured general creditor. No assets of Teradata will be held or set aside as security for the obligations of Teradata under this Agreement.
17. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon you any right with respect to continuance of employment by Teradata, nor limit or affect in any manner the right of Teradata to terminate your employment or adjust your compensation.
18. By accepting any benefit under this Agreement, you and each person claiming under or through you shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated their acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan and any action taken under this Agreement or the Plan by the Committee, the Board or Teradata, in any case in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
19. Teradata may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by Teradata or a third party designated by Teradata.
 

Exhibit 10.4
You have been awarded the contingent right to receive a credit of share units (the "Share Units") under the Teradata 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Performance-Based Restricted Share Unit Agreement (this "Agreement") and the Plan. Please refer to the share unit information page on the website of Teradata's third party Plan administrator for your "Target Number of Share Units." Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Plan.
 
(a) . Your right to receive a credit of all, a portion, or a multiple of the Target Number of Share Units shall be contingent upon the extent to which Teradata Corporation (the "Company") achieves the performance goals set forth on the attached Exhibit A (the "Performance Goals") for the performance period commencing                     ,          and ending                     ,              (the "Performance Period"), in accordance with the payout levels set forth on the attached (the "Performance Metrics"). The Compensation and Human Resource Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committee") may establish special adjustments that will be applied in calculating the extent to which the Performance Goals have been satisfied, provided that the adjustments are set forth in writing no later than 90 days after the beginning of the Performance Period.
In General
Exhibit A
(b) . After the end of the Performance Period, the Committee shall determine in writing the extent, if any, to which each of the Performance Goals has been satisfied and shall determine the percentage, if any, of the Target Number of Share Units that shall be credited to a book entry account established on your behalf (the "Account"), based on the payout level identified in the Performance Metrics. Each Share Unit credited to your Account under this Section 1(b) shall represent the contingent right to receive one Share and shall at all times be equal in value to one Share.
Crediting to Account
(i) If, upon the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Company achieves less than 25% of the target level of a Performance Goal, then you shall not receive a credit of any Share Units with respect to that Performance Goal, and if the Company achieves less than 25% of the target level for both Performance Goals, this Agreement shall terminate immediately without further action or notice.
(ii) If, upon the conclusion of the Performance Period, the Company achieves 25% or more of the target level of a Performance Goal, then you shall be credited with a number of Share Units with respect to such Performance Goal, effective on the day in which the Committee certifies the achievement of the Performance Goal as provided in this Section 1(b) (the "Crediting Date"), equal to the product of (A) your Target Number of Share Units, multiplied by (B) the combined weighted average of the payout levels for both Performance Goals as identified in the Performance Metrics (subject to such rounding conventions as may be implemented from time-to-time by Teradata's third party Plan administrator).
(c) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 3, your right to receive a credit of Share Units shall be forfeited automatically without further action or notice in the event that you cease to be employed by the Company or any of its affiliate companies (referred to collectively herein as "Teradata") through the end of the Performance Period.
Forfeiture of Share Units
 
(a) . The Share Units, if any, credited to your Account in accordance with Section 1 above shall be subject to the following vesting schedule:
Vesting
(i) One-third of the Share Units shall vest on each of the following dates (subject to such rounding conventions as may be implemented from time to time by Teradata's third party Plan administrator): (A) the Crediting Date, (B) the first anniversary of the Crediting Date, and (C) the second anniversary of the Crediting Date (each a "Vesting Date"), provided that you are continuously employed by Teradata until the applicable Vesting Date.
(ii) If you cease to be employed by Teradata due to (A) your death, or (B) your Disability (defined by reference to Teradata's long-term disability plan that covers you), in either case after the end of the Performance Period but prior to a Vesting Date, then the Share Units shall become fully vested upon such termination.
(iii) If you cease to be employed by Teradata prior to a Change in Control due to (A) your Retirement (defined as termination by you of your employment with Teradata at or after age 55 with the consent of the Committee); or (B) a reduction-in-force, in either case after the end of the Performance Period but prior to a Vesting Date, then a portion of the Share Units credited to your Account that have not yet vested shall become fully vested upon such termination, determined by multiplying (I) the number of unvested Share Units credited to your Account on the date of termination that would have vested on the next Vesting Date had you remained employed with Teradata through such date, by (II) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full and partial months of employment you completed commencing with the Vesting Date that occurred immediately prior to your termination, and the denominator of which is 12 months (with the resulting product rounded to the nearest whole number); provided that if your termination occurs during the period commencing immediately after the end of the Performance Period but prior to the Crediting Date, the fraction described above shall be deemed to be 12/12. The remaining number of Share Units shall be forfeited without further action or notice.
(iv) If a Change in Control occurs after the end of the Performance Period and prior to a Vesting Date, and the Share Units are not assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, then the Share Units shall vest upon the Change in Control.
(v) If a Change in Control occurs after the end of the Performance Period and prior to a Vesting Date, and the Share Units are assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, then the Share Units shall continue to vest in accordance with Section 2(a)(i); provided, however, that if you cease to be employed by Teradata due to (A) termination of your employment by Teradata without Cause, (B) termination of your employment with
Teradata on account of death, Disability, Retirement, or a reduction-in-force, or (C) if you are a participant in the Teradata Change in Control Severance Plan, a Teradata Severance Policy or a similar arrangement that defines "Good Reason" in the context of a resignation following a Change in Control (a "CIC Plan"), termination of your employment with Teradata for "Good Reason" as defined in the CIC Plan within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then the Share Units credited to your Account that have not yet vested shall vest in full upon such termination.
(b) . The Share Units credited to your Account that have not yet vested pursuant to Section 2(a) shall be forfeited automatically without further action or notice if you cease to be employed by Teradata prior to a Vesting Date other than as provided in Sections 2(a)(ii), (iii) or (v).
Forfeiture
(c) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 3 or Section 4 of this Agreement, the Company shall deliver the Shares underlying the vested Share Units credited to your Account in accordance with this Agreement within seventy (70) days after the earlier of (i) the applicable Vesting Date(s), or (ii) your termination of employment.
Payment
 
(a) . If during the Performance Period you cease to be employed by Teradata prior to a Change in Control due to death, Disability, Retirement or a reduction-in-force, then the Company shall credit to your Account a pro-rated number of Share Units, which shall be fully vested, and which shall be calculated by multiplying (i) the actual number of Share Units that would have been credited to your Account in accordance with Section 1 of this Agreement had you continued in employment throughout the Performance Period, determined based on the actual performance of the Company during such Performance Period, by (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full and partial months of employment you completed commencing with January 1, 2012, and the denominator of which is 36 months (subject to such rounding conventions as may be implemented from time-to-time by Teradata's third party Plan administrator). Except as otherwise provided in Section 4 of this Agreement, the Company shall deliver to you the Shares underlying the pro-rated number of Share Units within seventy (70) days after the end of the Performance Period.
Certain Terminations
(b) .
Change in Control
(i) If a Change in Control occurs during the Performance Period, and this award is not assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, then the Target Number of Share Units shall be credited to your Account, as of the date of the Change in Control, and the units shall be fully vested at that time. The Company shall deliver to you the Shares underlying the Target Number of Share Units within 30 days after such Change in Control. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that your right to receive such Shares constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code ("Section 409A"), the Company shall deliver to you the Shares underlying the Target Number of Share Units within seventy (70) days after the earlier of (i) the end of the Performance Period, or (ii) your termination of employment (except as otherwise provided in Section 4 of this Agreement).
(ii) If a Change in Control occurs during the Performance Period, and this award is assumed, converted or replaced by the continuing entity, then the Target Number of Share Units shall be credited to your Account, as of the date of the Change in Control, and the Share Units shall continue to vest in accordance with Section 2(a)(i); provided, however, that if you cease to be employed by Teradata due to (A) termination of your employment by Teradata without Cause, (B) termination of your employment with Teradata on account of death, Disability, Retirement, or a reduction-in-force, or (C) if you are a participant in a CIC Plan, termination of your employment with Teradata for "Good Reason" as defined in the CIC Plan within the two-year period commencing on the Change in Control, then the Share Units credited to your Account that have not yet vested shall vest in full upon such termination. If the Target Number of Share Units credited to your Account in accordance with this Section 3(b)(ii) becomes vested by reason of a termination of your employment that occurs on or prior to the end of the Performance Period, then, except as otherwise provided in Section 4 of this Agreement, the Company shall deliver to you the Shares underlying the Target Number of Share Units within seventy (70) days after the end of the Performance Period. If the Target Number of Share Units credited to your Account in accordance with this Section 3(b)(ii) becomes vested after the end of the Performance Period, then except as otherwise provided in Section 4 of this Agreement, the Company shall deliver the Shares underlying the vested Target Number of Share Units credited to your Account within seventy (70) days after the earlier of (x) the applicable Vesting Date(s), or (y) your termination of employment.
4. . The intent of the parties is that payments under this Agreement comply with Section 409A of the Code or are exempt therefrom and this Agreement shall be interpreted, administered and governed in accordance with such intent.
Section 409A Compliance
(a) . To the extent that you are a U.S. taxpayer, a termination of employment shall not be deemed to have occurred for purposes of any provision of this Agreement providing for the payment of Shares subject to Section 409A upon or following a termination of employment unless such termination is also a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A and you are no longer providing services (at a level that would preclude the occurrence of a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A) to Teradata as an employee or consultant, and for purposes of any such provision of this Agreement, references to a "termination," "termination of employment" or like terms shall mean "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A.
Termination of Employment
(b) . If you are a "specified employee," as determined under the Company's policy for identifying specified employees on the date of termination, then to the extent required in order to comply with Section 409A, all payments made under this Agreement that constitute a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A that are provided as a result of a "separation from service" within the meaning of Section 409A for any reason other than your death and that would otherwise be paid or provided during the first six months following such separation from service shall be accumulated through and paid within 30 days after the first business day that is more than six months after the date of your separation from service (or, if you die during such six-month period, within 30 days after your death).
Payment Delay for Specified Employees
(c) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, the Committee shall have the right, at any time in its sole discretion, to accelerate the time of a payment under this Agreement to a time otherwise permitted under Section 409A in accordance with the requirements, restrictions and limitations of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(j).
Acceleration of Payment
5. . By accepting this award, unless disclosure is required by applicable law or regulation, you agree to keep this Agreement confidential and not to disclose its contents to anyone except your attorney, your immediate family, or your financial consultant, provided such persons agree in advance to keep such information confidential and not disclose it to others. The Share Units will be forfeited if you violate the terms and conditions of this Section 5.
Confidentiality
6. . At all times before payment, the Share Units may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise alienated, except by beneficiary designation, will or by the laws of descent and distribution upon your death. Any purported transfer or encumbrance in violation of the provisions of this Section 6 shall be void, and the other party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in such Share Units.
Transferability
7. . From and after the Crediting Date and until the earlier of (a) the time when the Share Units are paid in accordance with this Agreement or (b) the time when your rights in the Share Units are forfeited in accordance with Section 2(b) hereof, on the date that Teradata pays a cash dividend (if any) to holders of Shares generally, you shall receive additional Share Units equal to (x) the number of Share Units held by you as of the date of record for such dividend, provided that the record date occurs on or after the Crediting Date; multiplied by (y) the per Share cash dividend amount; divided by (z) the Fair Market Value per Share on the dividend payment date. The additional Share Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions as the Share Units covered by this Agreement, including without limitation the forfeiture provisions of Section 2(b) of this Agreement; provided, however, that for purposes of Section 2(a)(i) of this Agreement (i) any such additional Share Units issued between the Crediting Date and the first anniversary of the Crediting Date shall vest in two equal installments on the first anniversary of the Crediting Date and the second anniversary of the Crediting Date, provided that you are continuously employed by Teradata through each such date, and (ii) any such additional Share Units issued between the first anniversary of the Crediting Date and the second anniversary of the Crediting Date shall vest on the second anniversary of the Crediting Date, provided that you are continuously employed by Teradata through such date.
Dividend Equivalents
8. . The Share Units will be forfeited if your employment is terminated by Teradata for Cause or if the Committee determines that you engaged in misconduct in connection with your employment with Teradata. Further, if your employment is terminated by Teradata for Cause, then, to the extent demanded by the Committee in its sole discretion, you shall (a) return to Teradata all Shares that you have not disposed of that have been acquired pursuant to this Agreement, and (b) with respect to any Shares acquired pursuant to this Agreement that you have disposed of, pay to Teradata in cash the Fair Market Value of such Shares on the date acquired.
Misconduct; Termination for Cause
9. . Teradata has the right to deduct or cause to be deducted from, or collect or cause to be collected, with respect to the taxation of any Share Units, any federal, state, local, foreign or other taxes required by the laws of the United States or any other country to be withheld or paid with respect to the Share Units, and you or your legal representative or beneficiary will be required to pay any such amounts. By accepting this award, you consent and direct that, if you are paid through Teradata's United States payroll system at the time the Share Units are settled, Teradata's stock plan administrator will withhold or sell the number of Shares underlying the Share Units as Teradata, in its sole discretion, deems necessary to satisfy such withholding requirements; provided, however, that if Teradata is required to withhold any taxes prior to settlement of the Share Units, then you agree that Teradata may satisfy those withholding obligations by withholding cash from your compensation otherwise due to you or by any other action as it may deem necessary to satisfy the withholding obligation. In no event shall the Fair Market Value of the Shares of common stock to be surrendered pursuant to this section to satisfy applicable withholding taxes exceed the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld or such other amount that will not result in a negative accounting impact. If you are paid through a non-United States Teradata payroll system, you agree that Teradata may satisfy any withholding obligations by withholding cash from your compensation otherwise due to you or by any other action as it may deem necessary to satisfy the withholding obligation. You acknowledge that the ultimate liability for all taxes and tax-related items is and remains your responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by Teradata or the Employer. You also agree that you solely are responsible for filing all relevant documentation that may be required of you in relation to this award or any tax-related items, such as but not limited to personal income tax returns or reporting statements in relation to the grant or vesting of this award or the subsequent sale of Shares acquired pursuant to such award and the receipt of any dividends or dividend equivalents.
Withholding
10. . In exchange for the Share Units, you agree that during your employment with Teradata and for a period of twelve (12) months after the termination of employment (or if applicable law mandates a maximum time that is shorter than twelve months, then for a period of time equal to that shorter maximum period), regardless of the reason for termination, you will not, without the prior written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata, (a) render services directly or indirectly to, or become employed by, any Competing Organization (as defined in this Section 10 below) to the extent such services or employment involves the development, manufacture, marketing, sale, advertising or servicing of any product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to, or competes with, a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers and upon which you worked or in which you participated during the last two (2) years of your Teradata employment; (b) directly or indirectly recruit, hire, solicit or induce, or attempt to induce, any exempt employee of Teradata to terminate his or her employment with or otherwise cease his or her relationship with Teradata; or (c) solicit the business of any firm or company with which you worked during the preceding two (2) years while employed by Teradata, including customers of Teradata. If you breach the terms of this Section 10, you agree that in addition to any liability you may have for damages arising from such breach, any unvested Share Units will be immediately forfeited, and you agree to pay to Teradata the Fair Market Value of any Share Units that vested and that were paid during the twelve (12) months prior to the date of termination of your employment. Such Fair Market Value shall be determined as of the date that the Share Units become vested. If you breach the terms of this Section 10 prior to the end of the Performance Period but after you incur a termination described in Section 3(a)
Restrictive Covenants
of this Agreement, your award will be forfeited and you will not receive the pro-rata portion of the Share Units.
As used in this Section 10, "Competing Organization" means an organization identified as a Competing Organization by the Chief Executive Officer of Teradata for the year in which your employment with Teradata terminates, and any other person or organization which is engaged in or about to become engaged in research on or development, production, marketing, leasing, selling or servicing of a product, process, system or service which is the same or similar to or competes with a product, process, system or service manufactured, sold, serviced or otherwise provided by Teradata to its customers. The list of Competing Organizations identified by the Chief Executive Officer is maintained by the Teradata Law Department.
11. . By accepting this award, you agree that, where permitted by local law, any controversy or claim arising out of or related to your employment relationship with Teradata shall be resolved by first exhausting any Teradata internal dispute resolution process and policy, and then by arbitration pursuant to such policy. If you are employed outside the United States, where permitted by local law, the arbitration shall be conducted in the regional headquarters city of the business unit in which you work. The arbitration shall be held before a single arbitrator who is an attorney knowledgeable in employment law. The arbitrator's decision and award shall be final and binding and may be entered in any court having jurisdiction. For arbitrations held in the United States, issues of arbitrability shall be determined in accordance with the federal substantive and procedural laws relating to arbitration; all other aspects shall be interpreted in accordance with the laws of the state in which the headquarters of Teradata is located. Each party shall bear its own attorney's fees associated with the arbitration and other costs and expenses of the arbitration shall be borne as provided by the rules of the American Arbitration Association for an arbitration held in the United States, or similar applicable rules for an arbitration held outside the United States.
Arbitration
Notwithstanding the preceding subparagraph, you acknowledge that if you breach Section 10, Teradata will sustain irreparable injury and will not have an adequate remedy at law. As a result, you agree that in the event of your breach of Section 10 Teradata may, in addition to any other remedies available to it, bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction for equitable relief to preserve the status quo pending appointment of an arbitrator and completion of an arbitration. You stipulate to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state and federal courts located in the location from which Teradata's equity programs are administered, for any such proceedings.
12. . By accepting this award, you acknowledge and agree that, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, you may be required to forfeit or repay any or all of the Share Units pursuant to the terms of the Teradata Corporation Compensation Recovery Policy (or a successor policy), as the same may be amended to comply with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act or any rules or regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission or applicable securities exchange.
Compensation Recovery Policy
13. .
Beneficiaries; Successors
(a) Without limiting Section 6 of this Agreement, you may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive all or part of any Share Units to be distributed in case of your death, and you may change or revoke such designation at any time. In the event of your death, any Share Units distributable hereunder that are subject to such a designation will be distributed to such beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance with this Agreement. Any other Share Units not designated by you will be distributable to your estate. If there is any question as to the legal right of any beneficiary to receive a distribution hereunder, the Share Units in question may be transferred to your estate, in which event Teradata will have no further liability to anyone with respect to such Share Units.
(b) The provisions of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, your successors, administrators, heirs, legal representatives and assigns, and the successors and assigns of the Company.
14. . The provisions of this Agreement are severable. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable or invalid by a court or other tribunal of competent jurisdiction (including an arbitration tribunal), it shall be severed and shall not affect any other part of this Agreement, which will be enforced as permitted by law.
Severability
15. . The terms of this award of Share Units as evidenced by this Agreement may be amended by the Teradata Board of Directors or the Committee.
Amendment
16. . The number of Share Units and the number and kind of shares of stock covered by this Agreement shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 14 of the Plan.
Adjustments
17. . In the event of a conflict between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of the Plan, the terms and conditions of the Plan shall prevail, except that with respect to matters involving choice of law, the terms and conditions of Section 10 of this Agreement shall prevail.
Plan Governs
18. . You shall not possess any incidents of ownership (including, without limitation, dividend and voting rights) in the Shares underlying the Share Units credited to your Account until such Shares have been delivered to you in accordance with Section 2, Section 3 or Section 4 hereof. The obligations of the Company under this Agreement will be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to deliver Shares in the future, and your rights will be no greater than that of an unsecured general creditor. No assets of the Company will be held or set aside as security for the obligations of the Company under this Agreement.
Dividend; Voting Rights
19. . Nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon you any right with respect to continuance of employment by Teradata, nor limit or affect in any manner the right of Teradata to terminate your employment or adjust your compensation. Furthermore, nothing contained in this Agreement shall confer upon you any right to receive any future Share Units or awards under the Plan or the inclusion of the value of any awards in the calculation of severance payments, if any, upon termination of employment.
No Employment Contract or Acquired Rights
20. . Notwithstanding any provision herein, if the Plan or your employment with Teradata is subject to the rules and regulations of one or more non-United States jurisdictions, then your participation in the Plan shall be subject to any such rules and regulations and any special terms and conditions as set forth in any appendix for your country (the ""). Moreover, if you relocate to one of the countries included in the Appendix, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to you, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. The Company also reserves the right to impose other requirements on your participation in the Plan to the extent the Company determines it necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan and to require you to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. The Appendix constitutes part of this Agreement.
Non-U.S. Employees
Appendix
You also understand and agree that any cross-border cash remittance made in relation to this award, including the transfer of proceeds received upon the sale of Shares, must be made through a locally authorized financial institution or registered foreign exchange agency and may require you to provide to such financial institution or agency certain information regarding the transaction. Moreover, you understand and agree that the Company is neither responsible for any foreign exchange fluctuation between your local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of this award nor liable for any decrease in the value of Shares or this award. In addition, the ownership of Shares or assets and holding of bank or brokerage account abroad may subject you to reporting requirements imposed by tax, banking, and/or other authorities in your country, and you understand and agree that you solely are responsible for complying with such requirements.
21. . By accepting any benefit under this Agreement, you and each person claiming under or through you shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated their acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, all of the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the Plan and any action taken under this Agreement or the Plan by the Committee, the Board or Teradata, in any case in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
Acceptance of Terms
22. . Teradata may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means. You hereby consent to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agree to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by Teradata or a third party designated by Teradata. If you have received this Agreement or any other document related to the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control.
Communications and Electronic Delivery
23. . You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Agreement and any other Share Unit grant materials by and among, as applicable, the Employer and Teradata for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.
Data Privacy Consent
You understand that Teradata and the Employer may hold certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in Teradata, details of all Share Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan ("Data").
You understand that Data will be transferred to any third parties assisting Teradata with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan. You understand the recipients of the Data may be located in your country, in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients' country (e.g., the United States) may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize Teradata and the recipients which may assist Teradata (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.
This Appendix includes additional terms and conditions that govern the Share Units granted to you under the Plan if you reside outside the U.S. Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix have the meanings set forth in the Plan and/or the Agreement.
This Appendix may also include information you should be aware of with respect to your participation in the Plan. The information is based on the securities, exchange control and other laws in effect as of April 2012; however, such laws are often complex and change frequently. As a result, the Company strongly recommends that you not rely on the Appendix as the only source of information relating to the consequences of your participation in the Plan because the information may be out of date at the time that your Share Units vest or you sell Shares acquired under the Plan. In addition, the information contained herein is general in nature and may not apply to your particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure you of any particular result. Accordingly, you are advised to seek appropriate professional legal and tax advice as to how the relevant laws in your country may apply to your situation. Finally, if you are a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which you are currently working, the information contained herein may not be applicable to you.
Neither the Company nor the Shares are registered with any local stock exchange or under the control of any local securities regulator outside the U.S. This Agreement (of which this Appendix is a part), the Plan, and any other communications or materials that you may receive regarding participation in the Plan do not constitute advertising or an offering of securities outside the U.S. The issuance of securities described in any Plan-related documents is not intended for offering or public circulation in your jurisdiction.
Securities Law Notice:
 


