ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. (Unless indicated otherwise, dollars in millions except per share amounts) Organization of Information Managements Discussion and Analysis provides a narrative on our operating performance, financial condition and liquidity and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements. It includes the following sections: Executive Overview Sales Commentary Consolidated Operating Results Goodwill and Intangible Assets Restructuring and Other Charges Income Taxes Postretirement Benefits Financial Condition Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates New Accounting Standards Non GAAP Financial Measures Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Executive Overview We are a leading creator and manufacturer of flavor and fragrance compounds used to impart or improve the flavor or fragrance in a wide variety of consumer products. The precise size of the global market for flavors and fragrances is difficult to determine because the industry is highly fragmented, both geographically and along product lines; there are a limited number of publicly traded companies in the industry; certain customers maintain in house capabilities fulfilling a portion of their flavor or fragrance needs; and the quality and depth of market information in developing regions of the world is limited. Analysts generally estimate the global market to be $14 billion of which IFF represents 16%; the largest competitor in the industry has approximately a 25% market share. IFF is one of the top four companies, which together represent 70% of the flavors and fragrances industry. IFF is organized into two units that reflect our flavor and fragrance businesses. Approximately 46% of our 2008 net sales were flavor compounds. Flavor compounds are sold to the food and beverage industries for use in consumer products such as prepared foods, beverages, dairy, food and confectionery products. The remaining 54% of sales, representing the fragrance business unit, were in three fragrance categories: functional fragrances, including fragrance compounds for personal care (e.g., soaps) and household products (e.g., detergents and cleaning agents); fine fragrance and beauty care, including perfumes, colognes and toiletries; and ingredients, consisting of natural and synthetic ingredients that can be combined with other materials to create unique functional and fine fragrance compounds. Major fragrance customers include the cosmetics industry, including perfume and toiletries manufacturers, and the household products industry, including manufacturers of soaps, detergents, fabric care, household cleaners and air fresheners. Approximately 55% of our ingredient production is consumed internally; the balance is sold to third party customers. Changing social habits resulting from such factors as increases in personal income, leisure time, health concerns, urbanization and population growth stimulate demand for consumer products utilizing flavors and fragrances. These developments expand the market for products with finer fragrance quality, as well as the market for colognes and toiletries. Such developments also stimulate demand for convenience foods, soft drinks and low 17 Table of Contents fat and organic food products that must conform to expected tastes. These developments necessitate the creation and development of flavors and fragrances and ingredients that are compatible with newly introduced materials and methods of application used in consumer products. Flavors and fragrances are generally: created for the exclusive use by a specific customer; sold in powder or liquid form, in amounts ranging from a few pounds to several tons depending on the nature of the end product in which they are used; a small percentage of the volume and cost of the end product sold to the consumer; and a major factor in consumer selection and acceptance of the product. The flavors and fragrances industry is impacted by macroeconomic factors in all product categories and geographic regions. Such factors include the impact of currency on the price of raw materials and operating costs as well as on translation of reported results. In addition, IFF is susceptible to margin pressures due to customers cost improvement programs and input cost increases. However, these pressures can often be mitigated through a combination of product reformulation, sourcing strategies and material substitution plus internal cost containment efforts, and the development of innovative and streamlined solutions and processes. We produce more than 33,000 unique compounds, of which approximately 60% are flavors and 40% fragrances. We continually create new compounds to meet the changing characteristics and needs of our customers end products. No single compound represents more than 2% of net sales. Development of flavors and fragrances is a complex artistic and technical process calling upon the combined knowledge and talents of creative perfumers and flavorists, and application and research chemists. An important element of creation is the development of new ingredients. We bear essentially all costs incurred in connection with the creation and development of new flavors and fragrances and such formulae are generally protected under trade secrecy. We are not materially dependent on any patents, trademarks or licenses. IFFs success in the flavors and fragrances industry is driven by our ability to create unique sensory experiences that meet evolving consumer needs and expectations. These solutions are delivered in a cost efficient manner in conjunction with world class customer service. STRATEGIC DRIVERS We are well positioned to increase shareholder value by executing the following key drivers: targeting strategically important global and regional customers in both developed and emerging markets; attracting, developing and retaining top talent; and fostering a culture of innovation and continuous improvement. Our goal is to deliver differentiated solutions that enable our customers brands to win in the marketplace. Customers We believe there is a great deal of opportunity to grow sales by earning a greater share of our customers business across multiple categories, both in the developed and emerging markets. We use our proprietary tools of consumer insight to understand the connections between the consumer, the product, and the brand. This enables us to create flavors and fragrances that resonate with consumers and drive brand loyalty. People As a leading creator of flavors and fragrances, our ability to succeed is highly dependent on our greatest asset our people. We continue to invest considerable time and resources in developing our leaders to build IFF for the long term. Innovation IFF continues to focus on creating innovative processes, technologies and delivery systems, which includes a significant financial commitment to research and development. We see potential to gain market share by providing 18 Table of Contents unique solutions to our customers that enable their brands to win in the marketplace. In addition, by streamlining internal processes, we are better able to allocate resources to appropriate initiatives. As implementation of our strategy progresses, setting strategic initiatives requires regular establishment and reassessment of priorities and necessitates choices in order to provide the best opportunity for continuous improvement in shareholder value. Sales Commentary A breakdown of sales by principal product category is depicted in the graph below. 2008 Sales by Category Our five largest customers comprise 32% of consolidated sales and our top 30 customers 56%; these percentages have remained fairly constant for several years, although sales to larger customers are trending higher. We have one customer that accounts for 11% of our sales. A key factor for commercial success is inclusion on the strategic customers core supplier lists, opening opportunities to win new business. We are on the core supplier lists of a majority of our strategic customers. Net sales by business unit for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Percent Percent Net Sales 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 Flavors $ 1,092 9 % $ 1,006 12 % $ 895 Fragrances 1,297 2 % 1,271 6 % 1,200 Total net sales $ 2,389 5 % $ 2,277 9 % $ 2,095 2008 Sales by Destination We currently manage our operations by business unit but consider destination sales a supplemental performance measure. Although reported sales and earnings are affected by the weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar, this has not had a long term effect on the underlying strength of our business. 19 Table of Contents Net sales by destination for 2008, 2007 and 2006 were as follows: Percent Percent Sales by Destination 2008 Change 2007 Change 2006 EAME(1) $ 898 6 % $ 850 12 % $ 758 North America 601 4 % 630 3 % 612 Greater Asia 556 13 % 491 12 % 439 Latin America 334 9 % 306 7 % 286 Total net sales, as reported $ 2,389 5 % $ 2,277 9 % $ 2,095 (1) Europe, Africa and Middle East 2008 in Comparison to 2007 Sales totaled $2,389 million for 2008, up 5% from 2007; Flavor and Fragrance sales increased 9% and 2%, respectively. 2008 sales benefited from the generally weaker U.S. dollar and at comparable exchange rates would have increased 2% over the prior year. Flavors Business Unit Flavor sales increased 9% for 2008 based on new wins across all regions, particularly in the beverage category, led by a 21% increase in Latin America. Excluding the impact of currencies, sales growth for the Flavors business was 6%. Fragrances Business Unit Fragrance sales increased 2%. Excluding the impact of currencies, Fragrance sales declined 1% as strong growth in emerging markets was offset by weakness in the U.S. market. New product introductions of fragrance compounds were offset by volume declines primarily in the U.S. and EAME. Ingredient sales benefited from price increases, partially offset by volume declines as part of a product rationalization initiative and weaker economies in the U.S. and EAME. Sales By Region and Category Regional and product category sales performance for 2008 compared to the prior year, in reported dollars and local currency, was as follows: 2008 vs. 2007 Percent Change in Sales by Region of Destination Fine Total Beauty Care Functional Ingredients Frag. Flavors Total North America Reported 14 % 10 % 2 % 10 % 2 % 4 % EAME Reported 2 % 8 % 6 % 5 % 7 % 6 % Local Currency 4 % 2 % 1 % 1 % 2 % 0 % Latin America Reported 7 % 2 % 17 % 3 % 21 % 9 % Greater Asia Reported 19 % 13 % 11 % 14 % 13 % 13 % Local Currency 17 % 12 % 7 % 12 % 10 % 11 % Total Reported 0 % 3 % 5 % 2 % 9 % 5 % Local Currency 3 % 0 % 1 % 1 % 6 % 2 % North America flavors new product introductions of $22 million and some benefit from price increases were largely offset by volume declines. Weak economic conditions and significant slowdown in customer order activity led to volume declines in fine and functional fragrance compounds and ingredients. Fine fragrance sales were also negatively impacted by customer inventory corrections in the first half of the year. 20 Table of Contents Flavors sales in EAME were up as new product introductions of $22 million were partially offset by volume declines. Fine and functional fragrance new product introductions of $18 million and $15 million were offset by volume declines. Price increases in ingredients were offset by volume declines. Latin America flavors sales were strong throughout the region, driven mainly by new product introductions of $19 million. Fragrance sales growth was driven by new product introductions of $10 million offset by volume decreases, primarily in functional. Ingredients sales benefited from higher volumes coupled with price increases. Greater Asia sales growth in Flavors was driven by new product introductions of $16 million plus volume and price increases. Fragrance sales benefited from new product introductions of $25 million, partially offset by volume declines. 2007 in Comparison to 2006 Sales totaled $2,277 million, up 9% from 2006; flavor and fragrance sales increased 12% and 6%, respectively. 2007 sales benefited from the generally weaker U.S. dollar and at comparable exchange rates would have increased 5% over the prior year. Flavors Business Unit Flavors delivered strong sales performance across all regions most notably in Latin America, Greater Asia and Europe and in virtually all categories, particularly beverages and savory. Fragrance Business Unit Total Fragrance sales increased by 6% for the year and were driven by continued growth in Fine and Beauty Care of 8% and Ingredients of 9%, despite a decline in Ingredients pricing. Foreign exchange accounted for 4% of the sales increase. Sales By Region and Category Regional and product category sales performance for 2007 compared to the prior year, in reported dollars and local currency, was as follows: 2007 vs. 2006 Percent Change in Sales by Region of Destination Fine Total Beauty Care Functional Ingredients Frag. Flavors Total North America Reported 4 % 1 % 1 % 2 % 4 % 3 % EAME Reported 8 % 12 % 17 % 12 % 13 % 12 % Local Currency 0 % 4 % 8 % 3 % 5 % 4 % Latin America Reported 11 % 7 % 3 % 1 % 27 % 7 % Greater Asia Reported 16 % 2 % 4 % 6 % 16 % 12 % Local Currency 13 % 1 % 4 % 4 % 12 % 9 % Total Reported 8 % 3 % 9 % 6 % 12 % 9 % Local Currency 4 % 0 % 5 % 2 % 9 % 5 % North America fine fragrance growth was driven by new product introductions of $20 million partially offset by volume declines. Ingredients volume growth was partially offset by pricing declines. The decline in Functional fragrances was mainly volume related. Flavors sales growth was driven by new product introductions of $20 million mainly in the beverage and savory categories. EAME flavor sales growth resulted mainly from new product introductions of $25 million. Functional fragrance growth was strong primarily due to new product introductions of $23 million partially offset by volume declines and to a lesser extent lower pricing. The growth in fine fragrance related to new product 21 Table of Contents introductions of $28 million was offset by volume declines. Ingredients sales growth was volume related, partially offset by lower pricing. Latin America sales growth reflects strong performances in both flavors and fine fragrances. Flavors growth was driven by new product introductions of $21 million. Fine fragrances sales growth is largely attributable to new product introductions of $9 million. Functional fragrance performance was primarily volume related in the fabric care category; we saw some reversal of this trend in the fourth quarter as a result of new product introductions. Ingredients sales performance was largely due to volume increases partially offset by price declines. Greater Asia sales growth was driven by new product introductions of $35 million in flavors. Fragrance sales growth was driven by fine fragrances as a result of new product introductions of $4 million. Consolidated Operating Results The percentage relationship of cost of goods sold and other operating expenses to reported sales is detailed as follows: 2008 2007 2006 Cost of goods sold 59.4% 58.2% 57.8% Research and development expenses 8.9% 8.7% 8.9% Selling and administrative expenses 16.0% 16.5% 16.8% Cost of goods sold includes the cost of materials and manufacturing expenses; raw materials generally constitute 70% of the total. Research and development expenses are for the development of new and improved products, technical product support, compliance with governmental regulations, and help in maintaining relationships with customers who are often dependent on technological advances. Selling and administrative expenses support our sales and operating levels. 2008 in Comparison to 2007 Cost of goods sold, as a percentage of sales, was 59.4% compared with 58.2% in 2007. This increase was mainly the result of higher input costs and lower absorption of manufacturing expenses, most notably in North America fragrance compounds. These factors were partially offset by internal efficiencies, reformulation and material substitution efforts. Product mix, notably lower sales of fine and beauty care compounds, also impacted cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales. Research and development expense, as a percentage of sales, was 8.9%. This increase over the prior year period reflects increasing investments in customer applications and basic research. Selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, was 16.0% in the current period compared to 16.5% in the prior year period. The 2008 results included the benefit of a $3 million insurance recovery related to a 2005 product contamination matter offset by $3 million of employee separation costs. The 2007 results included $4 million of business transformation costs that enabled us to better leverage our global SAP software platforms. The decline in selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, is mainly attributable to lower incentive compensation. This was partially offset by $2 million related to the implementation of our global shared service center. Interest Expense Interest expense totaled $74 million compared to $42 million in 2007, due to higher borrowings incurred in connection with the 2007 share repurchase activities as well as a wider spread between the LIBOR (London InterBank Offer Rate) and EURIBOR (European InterBank Offer Rate) interest rates applicable to our interest rate swaps. Average cost of debt was 6.1% for 2008 compared to 4.5% in 2007. 22 Table of Contents Other (Income) Expense, Net Other income was $3 million in 2008 as compared to $11 million in 2007. Other income in 2007 included $11 million related to gains on asset sales. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 18.1% in 2008 as compared to a rate of 24.8% in the prior year. The lower tax rate in the current year primarily reflects the benefit of higher tax settlements related to prior years and a higher proportion of earnings in lower tax jurisdictions. The 2008 rate includes a $23 million benefit, primarily tax settlements related to prior years; the 2007 rate includes $10 million of similar benefits. Operating Results by Business Unit We evaluate the performance of business units based on operating profit before gains/losses on the disposition of assets, interest expense, other income (expense), net and income taxes. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the reconciliation to Income before taxes. Flavors Business Unit In 2008, Flavors operating profit totaled $198 million, or 18.1% as a percentage of sales, compared to $187 million or 18.6% in 2007. The 2008 amount includes $3.5 million of restructuring expenses. Excluding the restructuring charge, profitability was comparable year over year as strong sales growth augmented by lower incentive compensation expense was partially offset by unfavorable product mix. Fragrance Business Unit In 2008, Fragrance operating profit of $199 million, or 15.3% as a percentage of sales, declined from the $210 million or 16.5% reported in 2007. The 2008 amount includes $4.4 million of restructuring expenses. The decline in profit was driven by unfavorable absorption of manufacturing expenses from the shortfall in sales in North America, as well as unfavorable mix, with declining fine fragrance sales, partially offset by lower incentive compensation expense. Global Expenses Global expenses represent corporate and headquarters related expenses which include legal, finance, human resources and other administrative expenses that are not allocated to an individual business unit, as well as gains on asset sales and a pension curtailment charge. In 2008, Global expenses were $45 million as compared to $27 million in 2007. In 2008, Global expenses included approximately $10 million of restructuring charges, $3 million of employee separation costs and $2 million of implementation costs related to our global shared service center, partially offset by a $3 million insurance recovery related to a 2005 product contamination. Global expenses in 2007 included a $6 million curtailment loss related to changes to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan and $11 million related to the gains on asset sales. 2007 in Comparison to 2006 Cost of goods sold, as a percentage of sales, was 58.2% compared with 57.8% in 2006. This increase was mainly as a result of product mix, notably higher sales of fragrance ingredients and flavor compounds. Lower selling prices for fragrance ingredients, some impact of higher material costs and under absorption of manufacturing costs at a new fragrance ingredient facility in China, which scaled up production in 2007, also contributed to the increase. The average cost of raw materials increased 2 3% over the prior year. Research and Development expense, as a percentage of sales, was 8.7%, comparable to the prior year levels. Selling and administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, was 16.5% in the period compared to 16.8% in the prior year period, reflecting good cost control and the benefit of headcount reductions that occurred in the first half of 2006. Selling and administrative expenses in 2007 include $4 million of business transformation costs to 23 Table of Contents enable us to better leverage our global SAP software platform. The 2006 results also included the benefit of a $3 million insurance recovery related to a 2005 product contamination matter; excluding the insurance recovery, 2006 Selling and administrative expenses would have been 16.9% of sales for the year. Interest Expense In 2007, interest expense totaled $42 million, increasing 63% compared to 2006, due to higher borrowings incurred in connection with share repurchase activities. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the share repurchase activities. Average cost of debt was 4.5% for 2007 compared to 3.3% in 2006. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net in 2007 increased $1 million over the prior year, mainly due to favorable exchange results and higher interest income as a result of higher interest rates. Other income included $11 million and $15 million, in 2007 and 2006, respectively, primarily related to gains on asset sales. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 24.8% in 2007 as compared to a rate of 27.7% in the prior year. Both the 2007 and 2006 rates benefited from favorable tax rulings with respect to prior years; excluding the benefit of these rulings from both years, the 2007 effective tax rate would have been 27.8% compared to a rate of 28.8% for 2006. The lower effective tax rate for the current year was largely the result of a greater percentage of consolidated pre tax earnings in lower tax jurisdictions. Operating Results by Business Unit We evaluate the performance of business units based on operating profit before gains/losses on the disposition of assets, interest expense, other income (expense), net and income taxes. See Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for the reconciliation to Income before taxes. Flavors Business Unit In 2007, Flavors operating profit of $187 million, or 18.6% as a percentage of sales, increased as compared to $153 million or 17.1% in 2006. The amount reported in 2006 benefited from a $3 million insurance recovery related to a 2005 product contamination matter; excluding the insurance recovery from the prior year comparative, Flavors profitability would have increased an additional 30 basis points over 2006. This profitability improvement was primarily driven by margin improvement enabled by strong sales growth, favorable product mix, increased absorption of manufacturing expenses and good cost control. Fragrance Business Unit In 2007, Fragrance operating profit of $210 million or 16.5%, as a percentage of sales, declined from the $212 million or 17.7% reported in 2006. Profitability was negatively impacted by lower selling prices of fragrance ingredients, higher material costs and underabsorption of manufacturing costs related to scaling up the China facility in 2007. Global Expenses Global expenses represent corporate and headquarters related expenses which include legal, finance, human resources and other administrative expenses that are not allocated to an individual business unit, as well as gains on asset sales and a pension curtailment charge. In 2007, Global expenses increased $9 million to $27 million from $18 million incurred in 2006. In 2007, Global expenses included approximately $6 million of curtailment loss as a result of changes to the U.S. defined benefit pension plan and approximately $11 million related to gains on asset sales. The 2006 expenses included approximately $15 million of other income primarily related to gains on asset sales. 24 Table of Contents Goodwill and Intangible Assets At December 31, 2008 and 2007, goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, totaled $727 million and $733 million, respectively. Additional details are contained in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We perform a goodwill impairment test on at least an annual basis, or more frequently in certain circumstances, by assessing the fair value of our reporting units based upon both discounted cash flow and comparison of multiples of comparable companies. We deem goodwill to be impaired if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value. We completed our annual assessments in 2008 and 2007, concluding there was no impairment of goodwill. Other intangible assets include patents, trademarks and other intellectual property, valued at acquisition, primarily through independent appraisals, which are amortized on a straight line basis over periods ranging from 6 to 20 years. We review our other intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in business conditions indicate that their full carrying value may not be recovered. Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges primarily consist of separation costs for employees including severance, outplacement and other benefit costs. In 2008, as part of our business transformation initiative to enable us to better leverage our global SAP software platform, we implemented a plan to centralize transaction processing in a global shared service center that resulted in the elimination of 127 positions globally, largely in the finance area. As a result of these actions, we recognized a pre tax charge of approximately $7 million in 2008 related to employee separation costs and $2 million in implementation costs. The implementation costs were included in selling and administrative expenses in 2008. In addition, we incurred a pre tax charge of approximately $12 million in the fourth quarter 2008 principally related to a performance improvement plan covering 91 positions across a variety of activities globally. Annual savings from these two initiatives is expected to be approximately $14 million beginning in 2009. The 2006 charge primarily related to employee separation expenses, in connection with the consolidation of our operations, principally in Europe and North America. Positions eliminated and charges, net of reversal by business segment in 2008 and 2006 are detailed in the table below; there were no such actions undertaken in 2007. Restructuring Charges (In Thousands) Positions Eliminated 2008 2006 2008 2006 Flavors $ 3,538 $ (463 ) 36 19 Fragrances 4,396 2,639 38 29 Global 10,278 504 144 10 Total $ 18,212 $ 2,680 218 58 25 Table of Contents Movements in related accruals in each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 were: Asset Related Employee and (In Millions) Related Other Total Balance January 1, 2006 $ 30 $ 4 $ 34 Additional charges 4 (1 ) 3 Cash and other costs (21 ) (1 ) (22 ) Balance December 31, 2006 13 2 15 Cash and other costs (10 ) (2 ) (12 ) Balance December 31, 2007 3 3 Additional charges, net of reversal 18 18 Cash and other costs (6 ) (6 ) Balance December 31, 2008 $ 15 $ $ 15 The remaining employee related liabilities are expected to be utilized by 2010 as obligations are satisfied. Income Taxes Effective utilization of the cash generated by our international operations is a critical component of our tax strategy. Strategic dividend repatriation from foreign subsidiaries creates U.S. taxable income, which enables us to recognize deferred tax assets. Pursuant to FAS 109, we establish a valuation allowance for net deferred tax assets if, based on the weight of the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Historically, we have provided a full valuation allowance against deferred tax assets resulting from state net operating losses and state credits, as well as selective non U.S. affiliates net operating losses. The changes in the valuation allowances from December 31, 2007 are primarily attributable to the current period net operating losses and currency translation adjustments. Postretirement Benefits In 2007, we recorded a curtailment loss of $5.9 million to recognize a portion of the unrecognized prior service costs associated with years of service no longer expected to be rendered and credited as service under the plans as a result of an amendment to the U.S. salaried qualified and non qualified pension plans. We also introduced an enhanced defined contribution plan for those employees affected by the pension curtailment that became effective January 1, 2008. These events resulted in approximately $4 million of annual savings. The global credit crisis has significantly increased volatility in the financial markets. The financial returns of our investment trusts during 2008 have been in line with the markets by asset class. We had little exposure to financial equities and had no direct investments in sub prime related assets. We do not expect the recent market declines to have a significant impact on our overall funding position as well as the timing and level of contributions. Financial Condition Cash, cash equivalents and short term investments totaled $179 million at December 31, 2008 compared to $152 million and $115 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Working capital totaled $710 million at year end 2008 compared to $613 million at December 31, 2007. The 2008 increase in working capital was primarily related to decreases in short term borrowings and accrued bonuses. The 2007 working capital amount was reduced by $39 million from the amount previously reported to conform to the 2008 presentation of deferred taxes assets and liabilities. Gross additions to property, plant and equipment were $85 million, $66 million and $58 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and are expected to approximate $100 million in 2009. 26 Table of Contents Our financial condition continues to be strong, as evidenced by substantial cash flow from operations and substantial drawdown capacity of approximately $415 million on our multi year revolving credit facility. Operating cash flow provides the primary source of funds for operating and capital needs as well as dividends paid to shareholders and share repurchase activities. We anticipate that cash flows from operations and availability under our existing credit facilities are sufficient to fund our capital spending and other cash requirements for at least the next eighteen months. Operating cash flow in 2008 was $221 million compared to $314 million and $282 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decline in operating cash flow in 2008 compared to the prior year was primarily attributable to increased working capital, and higher interest payments principally related to $500 million of Senior Unsecured Notes we issued to repurchase stock as discussed below. Net investing activities in 2008 utilized $90 million compared to $51 million and $48 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in investing activities was primarily related to higher capital spending and lower proceeds from asset dispositions. In 2007 and 2006, we realized sizeable cash proceeds from the sale of assets. In both years, the proceeds related to the sale of land and buildings; to the extent such assets had been written down in connection with previous restructuring activities, any gain or loss on disposition was accounted for as part of the restructuring activities. All transactions were with third party investors and we retained no ownership interest in any of the disposed assets. Compliance with existing governmental requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the environment has not materially affected our operations, earnings or competitive position. In 2008 and 2007, we spent $4 million and $3 million, respectively, on capital projects and $19 million and $18 million, respectively, in operating expenses and governmental charges for the purpose of complying with such regulations. Expenditures for these purposes will continue for the foreseeable future. In addition, we are party to a number of proceedings brought under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act or similar state statutes. It is expected that the impact of any judgments in or voluntary settlements of such proceedings will not be material to our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. The dividend paid per share in 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $.94, $.86 and $.74, respectively. In January, April and July 2008, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $.23 per share to shareholders. In July 2008, we announced a 9% increase in our quarterly dividend rate to $.25 per share effective with the dividend payable in October 2008. We paid dividends totaling $75 million, $77 million and $67 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Our current intention is to pay dividends approximating 30 35% of yearly earnings; however, the payment of dividends is determined by the Board of Directors (Board) at its discretion based on various factors, and no assurance can be provided as to future dividends. We supplement short term liquidity with access to capital markets, mainly through bank credit facilities and issuance of commercial paper. In 2005, IFF, including certain subsidiaries, entered into a revolving credit agreement (the Facility) with certain banks. The Facility provides for a five year U.S. $350 million (Tranche A) and Euro 400 million (Tranche B) multi currency revolving credit facility. Tranche A is available to IFF for commercial paper backstop and general corporate purposes; Tranche B is available to both IFF and the European subsidiaries for general corporate purposes. Borrowings under the Facility bear interest at an annual rate of LIBOR (or in relation to any Euro denominated loans, EURIBOR) plus a margin, currently 20 basis points, linked to our credit rating. We pay a commitment fee on the aggregate unused commitments and a utilization fee based on amounts outstanding under the Facility; such fees are not material. The Facility expires on November 23, 2012. During 2008 and 2007, the maximum amount of outstanding commercial paper was $30 million and $18 million, respectively. At December 31, 2008, we had $1,256 million of debt outstanding which is comparable to the $1,213 million outstanding at December 31, 2007. In November 2008, 13.3 billion of our Japanese Yen borrowings were replaced with a three year bank loan. In connection with this refinancing the related interest rate swaps expired. In October 2008, we closed out a $250 million USD LIBOR to EURIBOR interest rate swap and a $250 million fixed to floating interest rate swap at no cost. Additionally, in February 2009 we terminated a $300 million USD LIBOR to 27 Table of Contents EURIBOR interest rate swap which required us to make a payment of $16 million. See Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (Item 7A below) for additional information regarding these transactions. In July 2007, our Board authorized us to repurchase up to 15% or $750 million worth of our then outstanding common stock, whichever is less. In September 2007, under the July 2007 Plan, we entered into two agreements to purchase shares of our common stock under a $450 million accelerated share repurchase (ASR) program. The ASR concluded in June 2008. Total aggregate shares repurchased under the ASR program were 9.7 million shares at an average purchase price of $46.53. The ASR was primarily funded through the issuance of $500 million of Senior Unsecured Notes (Senior Notes 2007) in four series under a Note Purchase Agreement. See Note 8, Borrowings, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these notes. The Facility and Yen loan contain the most restrictive covenants requiring us to maintain, at the end of each fiscal quarter, a ratio of net debt for borrowed money to adjusted EBITDA in respect of the previous 12 month period of not more than 3.25 to 1. At December 31, 2008, we were in compliance with all financial and other covenants. At December 31, 2008 our Net Debt/ Adjusted EBITDA(1) was 2.34 to 1 as defined by the debt agreements. Failure to comply with the financial and other covenants under these agreements would constitute default and would allow the lenders to accelerate the maturity of all indebtedness under the related agreement. If such acceleration were to occur, we would not have sufficient liquidity available to repay the indebtedness. We would likely have to seek amendments under the agreements for relief from the financial covenants or repay the debt with proceeds from the issuance of new debt or equity, and or asset sales, if necessary. We may be unable to amend the agreements or raise sufficient capital to repay such obligations in the event the maturities are accelerated. (1) Adjusted EBITDA and Net Debt, which are non GAAP measures used for these covenants, are calculated in accordance with the definition in the debt agreements. In this context, these measures are used solely to provide information on the extent to which we are in compliance with debt covenants and may not be comparable to adjusted EBITDA and Net Debt used by other companies. A reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net income and net debt to total debt are as follows: 12 Months Ended December 31, (In Millions) 2008 2007 Net Income $ 229.6 $ 247.1 Interest expense 74.0 41.5 Income taxes 50.9 81.6 Depreciation 69.8 69.9 Amortization 6.2 12.9 Specified items 22.9 5.9 Adjusted EBITDA $ 453.4 $ 458.9 December 31, (In Millions) 2008 2007 Total Debt $ 1,255.7 $ 1,212.6 FAS 133 Fair Value Adjustment 16.9 0.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents 178.5 151.5 Net Debt $ 1,060.3 $ 1,060.9 For the year ended December 31, 2008, we repurchased .7 million shares of our common stock at a cost of $30 million on the open market. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we repurchased 2.6 million shares of our common stock in the open market at a cost of $127 million, plus an additional 7.6 million shares under the ASR. 28 Table of Contents At December 31, 2008, we had contractual payment obligations due within the time periods as specified in the following table: Payments Due 2014 and Contractual Obligations Total 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter (In Millions) Borrowings(1) $ 1,238 $ 102 $ 270 $ 241 $ 625 Interest on borrowings(1) 517 65 121 95 236 Operating leases(2) 286 26 45 36 179 Purchase commitments(3) 20 20 Pension funding obligations(4) 40 17 6 6 11 Postretirement obligations(4) 65 5 11 12 37 Total $ 2,166 $ 235 $ 453 $ 390 $ 1,088 (1) See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our various borrowing facilities. (2) Operating leases include facility and other lease commitments executed in the normal course of the business. Additional details concerning the United States facilities are contained in Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements and further details concerning worldwide aggregate operating leases are contained in Note 16 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (3) Purchase obligations and capital project commitments are not recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. (4) See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of our retirement plans. Anticipated funding obligations are based on current actuarial assumptions. Minimum funding requirements reported in the above table do not extend beyond 2018. Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates Our accounting policies are more fully described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. As disclosed in Note 1, the preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on managements best judgment of current events and actions that we may undertake in the future. Actual results may ultimately differ from estimates. Those areas requiring the greatest degree of management judgment or deemed most critical to our financial reporting involve: The periodic assessment of potential impairment of intangible assets acquired in business combinations. We currently have net intangible assets, including goodwill, of $727 million. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually. In assessing goodwill, management uses the most current actual and forecasted operating data available, and current market based assumptions. A two step approach is employed. The first step involves estimating the value of reporting units based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. The second step, if necessary, is to measure the value of the impairment loss, if any. Managements most subjective assumptions relate to the estimated/projected sales and operating growth values employed in the forecast. The analysis and evaluation of income taxes. We account for taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (FAS 109). Under FAS 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, based on tax laws as currently enacted. The provision for income taxes is based on statutory income taxes rates and planning opportunities available in the various tax jurisdictions where we operate. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and tax positions. We may be challenged upon review by the applicable taxing authority and positions taken by us may not be sustained. We regularly update these accruals in light of changing facts and circumstances. 29 Table of Contents In 2007, we adopted SFAS No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation of FAS 109 (FIN 48). As a result of adopting FIN 48, we recognized a $1 million increase in Other liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits and a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment to Retained earnings. Also as prescribed by FIN 48, certain tax related amounts in the Consolidated Balance Sheet are classified differently than in prior periods. Amounts receivable from various tax jurisdictions are now included in Other current assets and tax reserves previously classified as accrued taxes on income are now included in Other liabilities. The evaluation of potential legal and environmental liabilities, where changing circumstances, rules and regulations require regular reassessment of related practices and anticipated costs. We are subject to certain legal claims regarding products and other matters, as well as environmental related matters. Significant management judgment is involved in determining when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the extent to which it can be reasonably estimated. We regularly assess potential liabilities with respect to all legal claims based on the most recent available information, in consultation with outside counsel handling the defense of such matters. To the extent a liability is deemed to have been incurred and can be reasonably estimated, we recognize a corresponding liability; if the reasonably estimated liability is a range, we recognize that amount considered most likely, or in the absence of such a determination, the minimum reasonably expected liability. To the extent such claims are covered by various insurance policies, we separately evaluate the likelihood of recovery and account for any related insurance receivable. Management judgments involve determination as to whether a liability has been incurred, the reasonably estimated amount of that liability, and any potential insurance recovery. We regularly evaluate potential environmental exposure in terms of total estimated cost and the viability of other potentially responsible parties (PRPs) associated with our exposure. Recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress and additional information becomes available. Critical management assumptions relate to expected total costs to remediate and the financial viability of PRPs to share such costs. Determination of the various assumptions employed in the valuation of pension and retiree health care expense and associated obligations. Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements related to pension and other postretirement benefits are determined from actuarial valuations. Inherent in such valuations are assumptions including expected return on plan assets, discount rates at which the liabilities could be settled, rates of increase in future compensation levels, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, affect expense recognized and obligations recorded in future periods. With respect to the U.S. plans, the expected return on plan assets was determined based on an asset allocation model using the current benchmark allocation, real rates of return by asset class and an anticipated inflation rate. The benchmark asset allocation was: 10 20% in cash and fixed income investments expected to yield 1.0%; 10 20% employed in corporate and government bonds expected to yield 2.1%; and 65 75% in equity investments with a long term expected yield of 8.5 9.3%. The inflation rate assumed in the model was 2.5%. The plan has achieved a compounded annual rate of return of approximately 9% over the previous 20 years. The expected annual rate of return for the non U.S. plans employs a similar set of criteria adapted for local investments, inflation rates and in certain cases specific government requirements. The discount rate used for determining future pension obligations for each individual plan is based on a review of long term bonds that receive a high rating from a recognized rating agency. Additionally, for the U.S. plans, the discount rate was based on the internal rate of return for a portfolio of Moodys Aa3 rated high quality bonds with maturities that are consistent with the projected future benefit payment obligations of the plan. The rate of compensation increase for all plans and the medical cost trend rate for the applicable U.S. plans are based on plan experience. Management establishes the assumptions concerning discount rates and actuarial assumptions based on current market conditions, including asset returns and other factors applicable under the circumstances. Changes in pension and other post employment benefits, and associated expenses, may occur in the future due 30 Table of Contents to changes in these assumptions. The impact that a .25% decrease in the discount rate or a 1% change in the medical cost trend rate would have on our pension and other post employment benefit expense, as applicable, is discussed in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The ongoing assessment of the valuation of inventory, given the large number of natural ingredients employed, the quality of which may be diminished over time. We maintain between 40% and 55% of our inventory as raw materials, providing the greatest degree of flexibility in manufacture and use. Materials are evaluated based on shelf life, known uses and anticipated demand based on forecasted customer order activity and changes in product/sales mix. Management policy provides for an ongoing assessment of inventory with adjustments recorded when an item is deemed to be slow moving or obsolete. Determination of various assumptions employed in the calculation of equity compensation expense. Amounts recognized in the Consolidated Financial Statements related to equity compensation are determined based on the number of awards and type of award as well as specific assumptions regarding expected life, stock price volatility, risk free interest rate, termination rates, exercise multiple and the dividend yield. These assumptions are employed in the Binomial model used to value certain awards. Management establishes the assumptions based on current market conditions and historical trends related to the equity awards. Developing the assumptions used in the Binomial model requires significant judgment on our part and, generally, may involve analyzing available historical data, considering whether historical data is relevant to predicting future behavior, making appropriate adjustments to historical data for future expectations, supplementing or replacing company specific historical data with data from other supportable sources and appropriately weighting each of the inputs. These assumptions are evaluated at each grant date. If factors change and we employ different assumptions for estimating share based compensation expense in future periods or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect operating income, net income and net income per share. We believe that we have considered relevant circumstances that we may be currently subject to, and the financial statements accurately reflect our best estimate of the results of our operations, financial condition and cash flows for the years presented. We have discussed the decision process and selection of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. New Accounting Standards In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141 (revised 2007), Business Combinations (FAS 141(R)). FAS 141(R) requires the measurement at fair value of assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree as of the acquisition date. SFAS 141(R) also requires that acquisition related costs and costs to restructure be expensed as incurred. We do not expect the adoption of FAS 141(R), which is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, to have an impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. A significant impact may, however, result from any future business acquisitions. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB No. 51 (FAS 160). FAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. It also amends certain of ARB No. 51s consolidation procedures for consistency with the requirements of FAS 141(R). This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008 and shall be applied prospectively as of the beginning of the year of adoption. We do not expect the adoption of FAS 160 to have a significant impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 (FAS 161). FAS 161 amends and expands the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133 with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of: (i) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments; (ii) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS 133 and its related interpretations and (iii) how derivative 31 Table of Contents instruments and related hedged items affect an entitys financial position statements. This statement is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. We are currently evaluating the impact of FAS 161 on the disclosures in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 162, The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (FAS 162). FAS 162 identifies the sources of accounting principles and the framework for selecting the principles to be used in the preparation of financial statements presented in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. FAS 162 will be effective 60 days following the SECs approval of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) amendments to AU Section 411, The Meaning of Present Fairly in Conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of FAS 162, but do not believe its adoption will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In June 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) No. 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (FSP EITF 03 6 1), which classifies unvested share based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) as participating securities and requires them to be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two class method described in SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share. This Staff Position is to be applied retrospectively and is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We have issued Purchase Restricted Stock (PRS) to certain eligible employees. The unvested portion of such PRS contains a nonforfeitable right to dividends paid by us, and as such, are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of earnings per share pursuant to the two class method. We are currently evaluating the potential impact of FSP EITF 03 6 1, but do not believe its adoption will have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS No. 132(R) 1, Employers Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets (FSP FAS 132(R) 1). FSP FAS 132(R) 1 expands the disclosure requirements of FAS No. 132(R) with the intent to provide users of financial statements with an enhanced understanding of: (i) how investment allocation decisions are made, including the investment policies and strategies used, (ii) the major categories of plan assets, (iii) the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets, (iv) the effect of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) on changes in plan assets and (v) significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. This statement is to be applied prospectively, effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009, with early application permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of FSP FAS 132(R) 1 on the disclosures in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Non GAAP Financial Measures Among the items in GAAP earnings but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings are: benefits of favorable tax rulings relating to prior years; employee separation and restructuring charges, the benefit of an insurance recovery, costs for the implementation of the global shared services plan in 2008 and the gain on the sale of land, a curtailment charge resulting from changes made to our U.S. defined benefit pension plan in 2007. In addition, in certain instances, we exclude the effects of exchange rate fluctuations when discussing our historical performance. Such information is supplemental to information presented in accordance with GAAP and is not intended to represent a presentation in accordance with GAAP. In discussing our historical and expected future results and financial condition, we believe it is meaningful for investors to be made aware of and to be assisted in a better understanding of, on a period to period comparative basis, of financial amounts both including and excluding these identified items, as well as the impact of exchange rate fluctuations on operating results and financial condition. We believe such additional non GAAP information provides investors with an overall perspective of the period to period performance of our core business. In addition, management internally reviews each of these non GAAP measures to evaluate performance on a comparative period to period basis in terms of absolute performance, trends and expected future performance with respect to our core continuing business. A material limitation of these non GAAP measures is that such measures do not reflect actual GAAP amounts, restructuring charges, employee separation costs and implementation costs include actual cash outlays, an insurance recovery is an actual cash recovery and benefits from favorable tax rulings reflect actual accounting and cash benefits realized; and we compensate for such limitations by presenting the accompanying reconciliation to the most directly comparable 32 Table of Contents GAAP measure. These non GAAP measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Statements in this Annual Report, which are not historical facts or information, are forward looking statements within the meaning of The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward looking statements are based on managements current assumptions, estimates and expectations. Certain of such forward looking information may be identified by such terms as expect, anticipate, believe, outlook, guidance, may and similar terms or variations thereof. All information concerning future revenues, tax rates or benefits, interest and other savings, earnings and other future financial results or financial position, constitutes forward looking information. Such forward looking statements involve significant risks, uncertainties and other factors. Actual results of the Company may differ materially from any future results expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Such factors include, among others, the following: general economic and business conditions in the Companys markets, especially given the current disruption in global economic conditions, including economic and recessionary pressures; energy and commodity prices; decline in consumer confidence and spending; significant fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar; population health and political uncertainties, and the difficulty in projecting the short and long term effects of global economic conditions; rising interest rates; continued volatility and deterioration of the capital and credit markets, including continued disruption in the commercial paper market, and any adverse impact on our cost of and access to capital and credit; fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of raw materials; the Companys ability to implement its business strategy, including the achievement of anticipated cost savings, profitability and growth targets; the impact of currency fluctuation or devaluation in the Companys principal foreign markets, especially given the current disruptions to such currency markets, and the impact on the availability, effectiveness and cost of the Companys hedging and risk management strategies; the outcome of uncertainties related to litigation; the impact of possible pension funding obligations and increased pension expense on the Companys cash flow and results of operations; and the effect of legal and regulatory proceedings, as well as restrictions imposed on the Company, its operations or its representatives by U.S. and foreign governments. The Company intends its forward looking statements to speak only as of the time of such statements and does not undertake or plan to update or revise them as more information becomes available or to reflect changes in expectations, assumptions or results. Any public statements or disclosures by IFF following this report that modify or impact any of the forward looking statements contained in or accompanying this report will be deemed to modify or supersede such outlook or other forward looking statements in or accompanying this report. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. We operate on a global basis and are exposed to currency fluctuation related to the manufacture and sale of our products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The major foreign currencies involve the markets in the European Union, Great Britain, Mexico, Brazil, China, Indonesia, Australia and Japan, although all regions are subject to foreign currency fluctuations versus the U.S. dollar. We actively monitor our foreign currency exposures in all major markets in which we operate, and employ a variety of techniques to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations, including foreign currency hedging activities. We enter into foreign currency forward contracts with the objective of reducing exposure to cash flow volatility associated with foreign currency receivables and payables, and with anticipated purchases of certain raw materials used in operations. These contracts, the counterparties to which are major international financial institutions, generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future date, and have maturities not exceeding six months. The notional amount and maturity dates of such contracts match those of the underlying transactions. The gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recorded in earnings at the same time as the transaction being hedged is recorded in earnings. In February 2003, we executed a 10 year Yen U.S. dollar currency swap related to the monthly sale and purchase of products between the U.S. and Japan, which is designated as a cash flow hedge. The annual notional value of this swap is approximately $5 million. The associated asset or liability on the open hedge instrument is recorded in Current assets or Current liabilities, as applicable. Gains and losses related to this swap are recorded currently, and the mark to market adjustment related to the value of the swap is reflected as a component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (AOCI). 33 Table of Contents In addition to the foreign exchange forward contracts noted above, we use non U.S. dollar borrowings and foreign exchange swap agreements, to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates, primarily in the European Union. These foreign exchange swap agreements are designated as hedges of net investments. In September 2007 and January 2006, we entered into a $250 million and a $300 million Cross Currency Interest Rate Swap, respectively, to hedge a portion of our consolidated EUR net investment. The derivative was structured as a swap of floating USD LIBOR to floating EURIBOR, with both floating interest rates reset and paid semi annually. Because the derivative is structured as a floating to floating swap, the only value, other than that derived from changes in the spot Foreign Exchange (FX) rate, are interest rate accruals which are reset semi annually. These accruals are netted and booked in current earnings. Mark to market changes due to differences in the underlying FX rate are recorded in AOCI and provide an offset to the cumulative translation adjustment of the underlying Euro net investments being hedged. Effectiveness is assessed quarterly. At maturity, or if the swaps are terminated early, any gain or loss will not be recorded to earnings, but will be recorded to AOCI until the EUR net investment is divested. In October 2008, we closed out the $250 million USD LIBOR to EURIBOR interest rate swap at no cost. In February 2009 we terminated the $300 million USD LIBOR to EURIBOR interest rate swap which required us to make a payment of $16 million. We use derivative instruments as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used are comprised principally of fixed to floating rate interest rate swaps. In September 2007, we entered into a $250 million interest rate swap agreement effectively converting the fixed rate on our long term U.S. dollar borrowings to a variable short term rate based on USD LIBOR rate plus markup. In March 2008, we realized an $18 million gain on termination of this swap, which has been deferred and is being amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining term of the related debt. During 2008, we entered into a similar interest rate swap and then in October 2008 we liquidated this position at no cost. In addition, in 2005, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements effectively converting the fixed rate on our long term Japanese Yen borrowings to a variable short term rate based on the Japanese Yen TIBOR rate plus markup. These swaps are designated as qualified fair value hedges. In November 2008, the portion of these swaps related to the 13.3 billion Yen notes refinanced, expired. Swap contracts are generally held to maturity and are intended to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. To the extent we have not received cash or otherwise amended or settled any swap agreements, any applicable mark to market adjustment relating to that swap is included as a separate component of debt. The following table summarizes our derivatives outstanding as of December 31, 2008. These swaps were all effective under FAS 133. Notional Amount 300,000,000 1,818,000,000 50,000,000 Currency USD JPY USD Description Cross Currency Interest Rate Swap (USD/EUR) Interest Rate Swap 10 Year Cross Currency Swap (JPY/USD) Hedged risk Foreign Exchange Risk(1) The risk of changes in fair value attributable to interest rate risk(2) The variability of cash flows attributable to foreign exchange risk(3) Method used to test for effectiveness: (1) Quarterly hedge effectiveness is tested using the forward rate method. We use a hypothetical derivative on an after tax basis, and ensure that the hedged amount is less then the designated Euro net investment. We ensure that the terms of the hedging instrument have not changed and perform a review of counterparty creditworthiness. (2) Changes in fair value attributable to the risk being hedged are expected to be completely offset by the hedging derivative because the critical terms of the Interest Rate Swap and the hedged debt match (i.e., the currency, notional amount, timing and date of interest payments). Quarterly hedge effectiveness testing includes ensuring the terms of the hedging instrument and the debt have not changed and reviewing counterparty creditworthiness. 34 Table of Contents (3) Changes in cash flow attributable to the risk being hedged are expected to be completely offset by the hedging derivative because the critical terms of the Cross Currency Swap and the forecasted transaction match (i.e., the currency, notional amount and timing). Quarterly hedge effectiveness testing includes reviewing counterparty creditworthiness, ensuring the probability of hedged forecasted transactions has not changed and ensuring the terms of the hedging instrument have not changed. We have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. Our risk management procedures include the monitoring of interest rate and foreign exchange exposures and hedge positions utilizing statistical analyses of cash flows, market value and sensitivity analysis. However, the use of these techniques to quantify the market risk of such instruments should not be construed as an endorsement of their accuracy or the accuracy of the related assumptions. Market exposures are evaluated using a sensitivity model that is intended to measure the potential 10% loss in interest rate and foreign exchange financial instruments, assuming adverse market conditions occur. Historical interest rates and foreign exchange rates are used to estimate the volatility and correlation of future rates. The estimated maximum potential one day loss in fair value of interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated using the sensitivity model, is not material to our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows in 2008, 2007 and 2006. The estimated maximum yearly loss in earnings due to interest rate or foreign exchange rate instruments, calculated utilizing the sensitivity model, is not material to our results of operations in 2008, 2007 and 2006. Actual results in the future may differ materially from these projected results due to actual developments in the global financial markets. The foreign currency and interest rate swap contracts existing during 2008 and 2007 were entered into for the purpose of seeking to mitigate the risk of certain specific adverse currency and interest rate risks. As a result of these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) that might have occurred if the markets moved favorably. In using these contracts, management exchanged the risks of the financial markets for counterparty risk. Counterparty risk arises from the inability of a counterparty to meet its obligations. To mitigate counterparty risk, we entered into derivative contracts with major leading financial institutions that have credit ratings equal to or better than our credit rating. 
 
