FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20020808163926.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.    EXHIBITS
 
 
 
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On August 8, 2002, the Registrant submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") sworn statements of its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer (the "Sworn Statements") pursuant to the Commission's order of June 27, 2002, requiring the filing of sworn statements pursuant to Section 21(a)(1) of the Act. The sworn statements are furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and are incorporated by reference.
 
Information furnished in this Form 8-K is not deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. It may only be incorporated by reference in another filing under the Exchange Act or Securities Act of 1993 if such subsequent filing specifically references Item 9 of this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: August 8, 2002
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
I, Thomas F. Chapman, state and attest that:
 
(1)  To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Equifax Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
 
 
 
(2)  I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee.
 
(3)  In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
I, Philip J. Mazzilli, state and attest that:
 
(1)    To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Equifax Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report:
 
 
 
(2)  I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee.
 
(3)  In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report":
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[SEAL]


