FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20021018154838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On October 17, 2002, Equifax Inc. issued a press release announcing its third quarter revenue and earnings results. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)  
Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99Press Release issued by Equifax Inc. regarding third quarter earnings, dated October 17, 2002.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date: October 18, 2002
 
 
The following Exhibits are being filed with this Report.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W. Atlanta, Georgia 30309
NEWS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Contact:  Jeff Dodge
                Investor Relations
                (404) 885-8804
                jeff.dodge@equifax.com
 
 
, October 17, 2002Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today reported solid third quarter revenue and earnings growth with strong performance from its consumer reporting and direct to consumer businesses. Earnings per share from continuing operations grew 9 percent to 36 cents. Revenue for the quarter increased 6 percent to $290 million. Reported results exclude an 8 cent per share charge taken in the third quarter to exit the company's commercial business in Spain, which was classified as a discontinued operation. Net income for the quarter, after discontinued operations, was $39 million or 28 cents per share.
Atlanta
 
"Equifax delivered strong growth and profitability in a difficult environment," said Thomas F. Chapman, Equifax chairman and CEO. "We continue to make significant progress on our key growth initiatives. Our unique, leading edge technologies, data assets and expertise are the foundation for all of these initiatives. We believe these newer growth platforms strengthen our franchise and will become significant sources of revenue growth in the future."
 
Highlights for the quarter as compared to Q3 2001 (excluding divestitures, discontinued operations, and goodwill amortization in 2001):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2002 Outlook
 
Equifax anticipates meeting the full year consensus for earnings per share of $1.38. For the fourth quarter ending December 2002, Equifax expects earnings per share of 38 cents.
 
Teleconference
 
Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss results will be held today at 9 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at Please note that Microsoft Media Player is required to access the audio Webcast. This can be downloaded from
www.equifax.com.
www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer.
 
About Equifax
 
Equifax, a 103-year-old S&P 500 company, enables and secures global commerce through its information management, marketing services, direct to consumer, commercial and authentication businesses. As a leader in information technology, Equifax serves customers across a wide range of industries including the financial services, retail, healthcare, telecommunications/utilities, brokerage, insurance and government industries. Equifax also enlightens, enables and empowers consumers to manage and protect their financial health with services offered at The company ranked number five in return on equity among . Equifax employs 4,900 in 12 countries and has $1.1 billion in revenue.
www.equifax.com.
Business Week's Best Performers during 2001
 
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Those factors could include changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for the Company's products and services, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, and other factors discussed in the "forward-looking information" section in the management's discussion and analysis included in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001.
 
 
 
1.    Can you provide a further breakdown of revenue in the North American Information Services segment?
 
North American Information Services revenue consists of the following components:
 
 
2.    Can you provide a breakout of costs of services and SG&A as a percent of sales?
 
Operating expenses as a percent of revenue, excluding goodwill in 2001, are as follows for continuing operations:
 
 
3.    Can you give depreciation and amortization by segment ?
 
Depreciation and amortization is as follows (2001 excludes City Directory and goodwill; 2002 excludes Spain commercial):
 
 
The above amounts exclude goodwill amortization in 2001 of the following:
 
 
4.    What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
 
The strengthening US dollar impacted revenue and operating income as follows:
 
 
 
 
5.    What was free cash flow for 2002 and 2001?
 
Free cash flow (defined as cash flow from operating activities, less capital expenditures) was approximately $115 million and $128 million for the first nine months of 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 
6.    What was the level of debt?
 
Total debt was comprised of the following:
 
 
7.    What was the level of capital spending?
 
Capital expenditures, excluding property and equipment and other assets purchased in acquisitions, were as follows:
 
 
8.    Why did the second and third quarters' effective tax rates decline from 40% in the first quarter to 39%?
 
The Company has been able to reduce its tax rate 1% by achieving a lower overall effective state tax rate.
 
9.    What is the current authorization amount for stock buyback?
 
As of September 30, 2002, approximately $223 million remained authorized for future share repurchases.
 
 
 
 
Operating revenue and operating income of the Company's reportable segments for the third quarter and first nine months of 2002 and 2001 are below. The results of the City Directory business sold in the fourth quarter of 2001 are classified as Divested Operations. Goodwill amortization for 2001 has been reclassified from each business segment to a separate line to provide comparability with 2002.
 


