FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20030717080249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)
Exhibits.
Exhibit 99        Press release issued by the Registrant on July 17, 2003.
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure
        The following information and exhibit is being furnished under Item 9 (Regulation FD Disclosure) and Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition):
        On July 17, 2003, Equifax Inc. issued a press release dated July 17, 2003, announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated by reference into this Item 9 and into Item 12.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 17, 2003
        The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
QuickLinks
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
SIGNATURES
Exhibit Index

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W. Atlanta, Georgia 30309
News Release
Contact:
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
        ATLANTA, July 17, 2003Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX), the leading provider of critical information to businesses, consumers and the public sector, today reported record second quarter revenue of $317 million, an increase of 18 percent over the prior year. Earnings per share from continuing operations grew 6 percent to 36 cents, in-line with consensus analysts' estimates.
        "Our company continued performing exceptionally well in a dynamic and very challenging economic environment," said Thomas F. Chapman, Equifax chairman and CEO. Our credit reporting business and decisioning platforms continue gaining momentum and new growth initiatives including predictive sciences and small business credit reporting contributed to North America's record performance in the quarter."
        Operating highlights in the quarter include:
North America
 - 
North America revenue growth of 24 percent, total revenues of $265 million and operating margins of 34 percent;
 - 
U.S. credit reporting volume growth of 34 percent, driven by growth in financial services, mortgage reporting, telecommunications and increased penetration within existing accounts;
 - 
Continued record performance in Consumer Direct, which enlightens, enables and empowers consumers to manage their financial health. Second quarter revenues were $17 million;
 - 
Momentum in Small Business Credit Reporting, with the database now containing comprehensive credit information on 17 million small businesses;
 - 
Equifax Marketing Services revenues in the quarter were $69 million. Results were negatively impacted by losses in the company's eMarketing business. During the quarter, the business launched Permissions, which integrates customer preference and demographic data with opt-in email addresses to provide highly targeted marketing tools to its customers.
International
        
Europe
Second quarter revenue reached $32 million with operating margins of 18 percent. Equifax continues to benefit from its fraud and security services, including several contracts to provide ID verification solutions to UK financial institutions.
        
Latin America
Latin America revenues grew in local currency and totaled $20 million in the quarter. Operating margins were 25 percent.
Teleconference
        Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss results will be held today at 9 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at . Please note that Microsoft Media Player is required to access the Webcast. This can be downloaded from .
www.equifax.com
www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer
About Equifax
        Equifax Inc. is the leading provider of critical information to businesses, consumers and the public sector. For businesses, it means faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the right customers. For consumers, it means easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services, and better insight into and management of their personal credit. For everyone, it means improved security against fraud, identity theft, and even terror. Equifax employs 5,000 people in 13 countries (United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Uruguay and El Salvador) and had $1.1 billion in revenue during 2002.
        Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Those factors could include changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for the Company's products and services, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, and other factors discussed in the "forward-looking information" section and the "risk factor" section of the management's discussion and analysis included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(1)
During the third quarter of 2002, we made the decision to exit the commercial business in Spain. In the quarter just ended June 30, 2003, we entered into a letter of intent with a prospective buyer. The results of the Spain commercial business for the period ended June 30, 2003, includes our updated estimate of the loss upon final disposition. The results of the Spain commercial business are classified as discontinued operations in 2002 & 2003.
(1)
During the third quarter of 2002, we made the decision to exit the commercial business in Spain. In the quarter just ended June 30, 2003, we entered into a letter of intent with a prospective buyer. The results of the Spain commercial business for the period ended June 30, 2003, includes our updated estimate of the loss upon final disposition. The results of the Spain commercial business are classified as discontinued operations in 2002 & 2003.
1.     Can you provide a further breakdown of revenue in the Equifax North America segment?
        Equifax North America revenue consists of the following components:
2.     Can you provide a breakout of costs of services and SG&A as a percent of sales?
        Operating expenses as a percent of revenue are as follows for continuing operations:
3.     Can you give depreciation and amortization by segment?
        Depreciation and amortization is as follows:
4.     What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
        The favorable (unfavorable) US dollar impact on revenue and operating income is as follows:
5.     What was your cash flow from operations in 2003 and 2002?
        Cash provided by operating activities was $73.7 million and $54.4 million for the second quarter of 2003 and 2002, respectively, due primarily to improved working capital management.
6.     What was the level of debt?
        Total debt was comprised of the following:
7.     What was the level of capital spending?
        Capital expenditures, excluding property and equipment and other assets purchased in acquisitions, were as follows:
        We still expect the level of capital spending for the year 2003 to fall between $45.0 million and $55.0 million.
8.     Why did Corporate Expense increase from $11.1 million for the 2nd Quarter 2002 to $15.2 million for the 2nd Quarter 2003?
        The increases are primarily due to increased consulting and legal fees.
9.     Why did other income increase?
        The primary reason for the increase in other income is the cash proceeds we are receiving on the purchased paper from the sale of our risk management business in October 2000.
10.   Why did the second quarter's estimated effective tax rate decline to 37.5%?
        We have been able to reduce our estimated effective tax rate for 2003 1 percent through effective state tax planning. We have implemented state tax planning strategies related to the apportionment of state income taxes and franchise taxes. The reduced state income taxes payable is the primary reason for the one percent reduction in the overall effective state tax rate.
11.   What is the current authorization amount for stock buyback?
        As of June 30, 2003, approximately $192.4 million remained authorized for future share repurchases. We invested $10.4 million on Treasury Stock purchases during the 2nd Quarter 2003.
12.   What is the discontinued operations loss in the 2nd Quarter?
        During the third quarter of 2002, we made the decision to exit our commercial business in Spain. In the quarter just ended June 30, 2003, we entered into a letter of intent with a prospective buyer. The results of the Spain commercial business for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, includes our updated estimate of the loss upon final disposition. The results of the Spain commercial business are classified as discontinued operations in 2002 and 2003.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 99
Equifax Reports Record Second Quarter Revenue of $317 Million and Earnings Per Share of 36 Cents
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited)
SEGMENT REVENUE & OPERATING INCOME
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (Unaudited)
SEGMENT REVENUE & OPERATING INCOME
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited)
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited) June 30, 2003 (Dollars in Millions, except per share amounts)


