FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20030424082645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 9.     Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The following information and exhibit is being furnished under Item 9 (Regulation FD Disclosure) and Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition).
 
On April 24, 2003, Equifax Inc. issued a press release dated April 24, 2003, announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated by reference into this Item 9 and into Item 12.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Dated: April 24, 2003
 
 
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W. Atlanta, Georgia 30309        
 
 
NEWS RELEASE        
 
Contact:
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
ATLANTA, April 24, 2003Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today reported a strong start to 2003 driven by continued excellent performance in its North American business.
 
"These outstanding results reflect the dedication of Equifax people who continue to demonstrate our commitment and ability to serve our customers by utilizing information and technology which provides real-time answers to increasingly complex questions," said Thomas F. Chapman, Equifax Chairman and CEO.
 
 
 
 
 
 
A summary of operations by business segment follows (detailed information is included in the attachments to this press release).
 
North America
 
U.S. credit reporting volume increased 19 percent, driven by mortgage reporting and increased penetration of existing accounts.
 
Consumer Direct, which enlightens, enables and empowers consumers to manage their financial health, continued its growth with first quarter revenues of $14.8 million, nearly double the prior year's revenue.
 
Equifax Marketing Services generated revenues of $78.7 million in the quarter. "With our credit, direct and e-marketing solutions, we provide customers in multiple industries with a broad range of multi-channel solutions including targeted opt-in email lists, robust consumer and small business profiles, and real time account acquisition services," said Chapman.
 
Equifax also introduced its Small Business suite of products, providing tools to those who have commercial relationships with small businesses to make informed decisions in serving their customers and prospects. The database now contains comprehensive credit information on nearly 16 million small businesses. The suite of products has been enhanced to include a risk rating tool for account origination and portfolio management which leverages Equifax's extensive analytics and modeling resources and a Small Business Credit Report, which can be viewed at the Equifax home page ().
www.equifax.com
 
Equifax also recently launched Decision Power Insight
, an automated screening process for demand deposit account applicants that combines deposit account history with fraud and identification tools, credit data and models for cross selling.
 
International
 
First quarter revenue reached $30.7 million with operating margins of 9 percent. Following a successful pilot program, Equifax's United Kingdom Passport Service was approved for implementation throughout all of the Passport Service's offices. Equifax will provide identity verification for approximately 5 million passport applications each year.
Europe
 
 
 
Latin American revenues totaled $15.6 million in the quarter, down from the prior year but reflecting growth in local currency. Operating margins were 18 percent. The Latin American business continues to benefit from its real-time decisioning, modeling, and analytic products.
Latin America
 
Teleconference
 
Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss results will be held today at 9 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at . Please note that Microsoft Media Player is required to access the Webcast. This can be downloaded from .
www.equifax.com
www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer
 
About Equifax
 
Equifax Inc. is the leading provider of critical information to businesses, consumers and the public sector. For businesses, it means faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the right customers. For consumers, it means easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services, and better insight into and management of their personal credit. For everyone, it means improved security against fraud, identity theft, and even terror. Equifax employs 5,000 people in 13 countries (United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Chile, Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Uruguay and El Salvador) and had $1.1 billion in revenue during 2002.
 
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Those factors could include changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for the Company's products and services, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, and other factors discussed in the "forward-looking information" section and the "risk factor" section of the management's discussion and analysis included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
Exhibit 99
 
EQUIFAX INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
 
 
(1)During the third quarter of 2002, the Company made the decision to exit its commercial business in Spain, and this business is now held for sale. The results of the Spain commercial business are classified as Discontinued Operations in 2002 & 2003.
 
 
 
EQUIFAX INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
 
 
EQUIFAX INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
(1)During the third quarter of 2002, the Company made the decision to exit its commercial business in Spain, and this business is now held for sale. The results of the Spain commercial business are classified as Discontinued Operations in 2002 & 2003.
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)March 31, 2003
(Dollars in Millions, except per share amounts)
 
Equifax North America revenue consists of the following components:
 
 
Operating expenses as a percent of revenue are as follows for continuing operations:
 
 
Depreciation and amortization is as follows:
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)March 31, 2003
(Dollars in Millions, except per share amounts)
 
The favorable (unfavorable) US dollar impact on revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
 
Cash provided by operating activities was approximately $28 million and $38 million for the first quarter of 2003 and 2002, respectively. The decrease was due primarily to the growth in trade accounts receivable.
 
Total debt was comprised of the following:
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)March 31, 2003
(Dollars in Millions, except per share amounts)
 
Capital expenditures, excluding property and equipment and other assets purchased in acquisitions, were as follows:
 
 
The Company still expects the level of capital spending for the year 2003 to fall between $45.0 million and $55.0 million.
 
The Company has been able to reduce its tax rate 1% by achieving a lower overall effective state tax rate. The Company has implemented state tax planning strategies related to the apportionment of state income taxes and franchise taxes. The reduced state income taxes payable is the primary reason for the one percent reduction in the overall effective state tax rate.
 
As of March 31, 2003, approximately $202.7 million remained authorized for future share repurchases. The Company spent $19.4 million on Treasury Stock purchases during the 1st Quarter 2003 compared with $30.1 million during the 1st Quarter 2002.
 
The increases are caused primarily by increased legal reserves, corporate reserves, and consulting fees.
 
Working capital, or current assets less current liabilities was ($144.3) at March 31, 2003 and ($142.3) at December 31, 2002. Without short-term debt and current maturities of $243.0 million at March 31, 2003 and $233.9 million at December 31, 2002, the adjusted working capital grew from $91.6 million at December 31, 2002 to $98.7 million at March 31, 2003 due primarily to the increase in trade receivables.


