FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20031016081410.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        (c) Exhibits.
        Exhibit 99    Press release issued by the Registrant on October 16, 2003.
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure
        The following information and exhibit is being furnished under Item 9 (Regulation FD Disclosure) and Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition):
        On October 16, 2003, Equifax Inc. issued a press release dated October 16, 2003, announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated by reference into this Item 9 and into Item 12.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 16, 2003
        The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
QuickLinks
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
SIGNATURES
Exhibit Index

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
ATLANTA, October 16, 2003Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX), a leading provider of critical information to businesses, consumers and the public sector, today reported third quarter revenue of $309.8 million, an increase of 7 percent over the prior year. Earnings per share from continuing operations grew 8 percent to 39 cents, a record for Equifax. Revenues for the nine-month period ending Sept. 30 grew 14 percent to $928.4 million and earnings per share from continuing operations grew 7 percent to $1.08 per share. Free cash flow (cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures) was $78 million for the third quarter compared to $39 million in the prior year.
"The consistency and profitability of our business contributed to another quarter of earnings growth and strong cash flow for Equifax," said Thomas F. Chapman, chairman and CEO. "Our information businesses, along with our decisioning platforms, continue delivering revenue growth and improved profit performance."
Highlights for the third quarter include:
North America
 - 
North America generated revenue growth of 8 percent over the prior year, total revenues of $256.6 million and operating margins of 35 percent;
 - 
U.S. credit reporting transaction volume grew 26 percent over the prior period;
 - 
Equifax Consumer Direct continued its record performance with third quarter revenues of $18.7 million;
 - 
Equifax Marketing Services revenues in the quarter were $64.4 million;
 - 
During the quarter, Equifax repurchased 1.5 million shares of its common stock for a total investment of $35.4 million. For the year, Equifax has repurchased 2.9 million shares for a total investment of $65.2 million.
International
Europe
Third quarter revenues were $31.7 million with operating margins of 15 percent. During September, Equifax became the first credit reporting agency in the UK to offer consumers on-line access to their credit report at .
myequifax.co.uk
Latin America
Latin America revenues grew in local currency and totaled $21.5 million in the quarter. Operating margins were 28 percent. The Latin American business continues to benefit from its real-time decisioning, modeling and analytics products.
Teleconference
Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss results will be held today at 9 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at www.equifax.com. Please note that Microsoft Media Player is required to access the Webcast. This can be downloaded from www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer.
Equifax has presented in this press release and will discuss during the teleconference certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities Exchange Commission. As required by SEC rules a reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP measure is presented in the Common Questions and Answers (Unaudited) that are a part of this press release. This information can also be found under the heading "non-GAAP Financial Measures" in the Investor Center on the company's website at www.equifax.com.
About Equifax
Equifax Inc. is a global leader in turning information into intelligence. For businesses, Equifax provides faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the right customers. For consumers, Equifax offers easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services, and better insight into and management of their personal credit.
Equifax. Information That Empowers.
Equifax employs 4,500 people in 13 countries and had $1.1 billion in revenue during 2002.
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Those factors could include changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for the Company's products and services, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws governing our business, and other factors discussed in the "forward-looking information" section and the "risk factor" section of the management's discussion and analysis included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003, and in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)September 30, 2003
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
1.
Can you provide a further breakdown of revenue in the Equifax North America segment?
Equifax North America revenue consists of the following components:
2.
Can you provide a breakout of costs of services and SG&A as a percent of sales?
Operating expenses as a percent of revenue are as follows for continuing operations:
3.
Can you give depreciation and amortization by segment?
Depreciation and amortization is as follows:
4.
What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
The favorable (unfavorable) US dollar impact on revenue and operating income is as follows:
5a.
What was your cash flow from operations for the third quarter 2003 and 2002?
Cash provided by operating activities was $91.4 million and $57.8 million for the third quarter of 2003 and 2002, respectively, due primarily to improved working capital management.
5b.
What was your free cash flow (cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures) for the third quarter 2003 and 2002?
Free cash flow for the third quarter was $77.9 million for 2003 and $38.8 million for 2002.
6.
What was the level of debt?
Total debt was comprised of the following:
7.
What was the level of capital spending?
Capital expenditures, excluding property and equipment and other assets purchased in acquisitions, were as follows:
We still expect the level of capital spending for the year 2003 to fall between $45.0 million and $55.0 million.
8.
Why did other income increase for the nine months ended September 30, 2003?
The primary reason for the increase in other income is the cash proceeds we are receiving on the purchased paper from the sale of our risk management business in October 2000.
9.
Why did the year to date's estimated effective tax rate decline to 37%?
We have been able to reduce our estimated effective tax rate for 2003 1.5 percent through effective state tax planning. We have implemented state tax planning strategies related to the apportionment of state income taxes and franchise taxes. The reduced state income taxes payable is the primary reason for the 1.5 percent reduction in the overall effective state tax rate.
10.
What is the current authorization amount for stock buyback?
As of September 30, 2003, approximately $156.9 million remained authorized for future share repurchases. We invested $35.4 million on Treasury Stock purchases during the 3rd Quarter 2003.
11.
What is the is the status of the sale of the discontinued operations?
During the third quarter of 2002, we made the decision to exit the commercial business in Spain. As of the quarter ended September 30, 2003, the letter of intent that we had entered into subsequent to the second quarter of 2003, had not materialized into a contract to purchase the business. We are still negotiating with a prospective buyer and will explore other options should our negotiation prove unsuccessful. We still expect to complete the sale of the commercial business in Spain in the near future.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
A.
Free cash flow
RECONCILIATION OF CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2003 AND 2002, TO FREE CASH FLOW* FOR THE QUARTER ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2003 AND 2002 (UNAUDITED)
*
Free cash flow is commonly used by investors to measure a company's liquidity. We feel it adds insight to the generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) measure of cash provided by operating activities by subtracting uses of cash for capital related expenditures. Free cash flow is not a measurement of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, our calculation of free cash flow may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore, comparability may be limited.
QuickLinks
Equifax Reports Record Third Quarter Earnings Per Share of 39 Cents


