FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20041021084521.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[   ] Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act       (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act       (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
, 2004
On October 21
, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2004.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
Date: October 21, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
Contact:
 
AtlantaEquifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today reported record revenue of $323 million for the third quarter of 2004, an increase of 4 percent from the same period last year. Earnings from continuing operations were $53 million, unchanged from the same period last year. Earnings per share (EPS) totaled $0.40, a 3 percent increase from 2003's third quarter.
, Oct. 21, 2004 --
 
"Equifax delivered record revenue in what continues to be a challenging economic environment. We enter the fourth quarter with significant momentum," said Thomas F. Chapman, Equifax chairman and CEO. "This solid financial performance is reflected in our free cash flow and improving operating margins."
 
Third quarter performance highlights compared to the third quarter of 2003
 
Consolidated operating margins increased to 30 percent from 29 percent;
Cash flow from operations was $94 million, up 3 percent; free cash flow was $81 million, up 4 percent;
North America Information Services reported revenue of $177 million, up 1 percent;
 
Revenue for Marketing Services in North America was $60 million, a 3 percent decline, however Equifax Credit Marketing Services revenue increased 3 percent to $37 million;
Personal Solutions increased revenue 26 percent to $24 million, with several new products already introduced for the fourth quarter;
Europe revenue grew to $39 million, up 22 percent;
Latin America revenue rose to $24 million, a 10 percent increase;
 
 
Teleconference and non-GAAP reconciliation information
 
Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss results will be held today at 9 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at . Please note that Microsoft Media Player is required to access the Webcast. This can be downloaded from .
www.equifax.com
www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer
Equifax has presented in this press release and will discuss during the teleconference certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. As required by SEC rules a reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP measure is presented below in the Common Questions and Answers (Unaudited) that are a part of this press release. This information can also be found under the heading "non-GAAP Financial Measures" in the Investor Center on the company's website at .
www.equifax.com
 
 
 
 
About Equifax
Equifax Inc. is a global leader in turning information into intelligence. For businesses, Equifax provides faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the appropriate customers. For consumers, Equifax offers easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services and better insight into and management of their personal credit. Equifax. Information that Empowers.
Safe Harbor
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.  Those factors include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for Equifax's products and services, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws governing our business, including particularly the cost of compliance with the FACT Act and related regulations, the ability of Equifax to achieve its productivity improvement and cost reduction targets, pricing and other competitive pressures, and certain other factors discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of Equifax's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to our Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue is a Non-GAAP financial measure and is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our core business activities, unaffected by the fluctuations of the mortgage industry and the performance of our eMarketing business. Revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue is useful to management and investors for comparative purposes.
We calculate free cash flow by subtracting capital-related expenditures from cash provided by operations. Free cash flow is useful to management and the Company's investors in measuring the cash generated by the Company that is available to be used for business and strategic initiatives. Free cash flow is not a measurement of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, our calculation of free cash flow may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore, comparability may be limited.
Equifax believes that income from continuing operations excluding the effect of the sale of investment, asset impairment and related charges is a measure that should be presented in addition to income from continuing operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and is useful to investors. The following matters should be considered when evaluating this non-GAAP financial measure:
 -  Equifax reviews the operating results of its businesses excluding the impact of the sale of investment, asset impairment and related charges because it provides an additional basis of comparison. We believe that these items are unusual in nature, and would not be indicative of ongoing operating results. As a result, management believes such charges should be excluded in order to compare past, current, and future periods.
 -  Asset impairments principally represent adjustments to the carrying value of certain assets and do not typically require a cash payment.
 -  Asset impairment and related charges are typically material and are considered to be outside the normal operations of a business. Corporate management is responsible for making decisions about asset impairment and related charges.
 Equifax believes that the effective tax rate sensitivity analysis is useful to management and investors for comparative purposes.
 


