FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20040722081400.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)
Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1    Press release issued by Equifax Inc. on July 22, 2004.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
        Equifax Inc. is furnishing the information required by Item 12 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," under this Item 9.
        On July 22, 2004, Equifax Inc. issued a press release relating to its financial results for the three month and six month periods ended June 30, 2004. A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference into this Item 9 and into Item 12. The information in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 22, 2004
        The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
QuickLinks
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
SIGNATURE
Exhibit Index

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Contact:
        Atlanta
, July 22, 2004
Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today reported record earnings from continuing operations of $73 million for the second quarter of 2004, up 49 percent from the same period last year. Earnings per share totaled $0.55, a 53 percent increase from 2003's second quarter. Equifax also reported record revenue of $319 million in the second quarter of 2004.
        Equifax's second quarter earnings included a one-time gain from the sale of its investment in Intersections Inc., which generated an after-tax, net gain of $23 million. Excluding the gain from the sale of this investment of $0.17 per share, and asset impairment and related charges of $.03 per share, Equifax earned $0.41 per share for the second quarter.
        "I am very encouraged by the results for the quarter and opportunities for the remainder of the year," said Thomas F. Chapman, Equifax chairman and CEO. "Equifax generated record revenue and earnings growth and is well positioned for future growth in light of the momentum created by our InterConnect ASP platform, the continued growth of our Personal Solutions business and other initiatives."
Second quarter performance highlights compared to the second quarter of 2003...
 - 
North America Information Services reported revenue of $176 million, down 3 percent from the second quarter of last year, driven primarily by a 20 percent decline in mortgage-related volume;
 - 
Revenue for Marketing Services in North America was $59 million, a 12 percent decline;
 - 
Personal Solutions increased its revenue 40 percent to $24 million;
 - 
In Europe, revenue climbed to $38 million, up 18 percent;
 - 
In Latin America, revenue rose to $22 million, a 9 percent increase; and
 - 
Free cash flow was $71 million for the quarter, up from $63 million in 2003.
Teleconference and non-GAAP reconciliation information
        Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss results will be held today at 9 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at
www.equifax.com
. Please note that Microsoft Media Player is required to access the Webcast. This can be downloaded from
www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer
. Equifax has presented in this press release and will discuss during the teleconference certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. As required by SEC rules a reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP measure is presented below in the Common Questions and Answers (Unaudited)
that are a part of this press release. This information can also be found under the heading "non-GAAP Financial Measures" in the Investor Center on the company's website at
www.equifax.com
.
About Equifax
        Equifax Inc. is a global leader in turning information into intelligence. For businesses, Equifax provides faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the appropriate customers. For consumers, Equifax offers easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services and better insight into and management of their personal credit. Equifax. Information that Empowers.
Safe Harbor
        Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Those factors include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for Equifax's products and services, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws governing our business, including particularly the cost of compliance with the FACT Act and related regulations, the ability of Equifax to achieve its productivity improvement and cost reduction targets, pricing and other competitive pressures, and certain other factors discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of Equifax's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
1.     Can you provide a further breakdown of revenue in the Equifax North America segment?
        Equifax North America revenue consists of the following components:
2.     Can you provide a breakout of costs of services and SG&A as a percent of sales?
        Operating expenses as a percent of revenue are as follows for continuing operations:
3.     Can you give depreciation and amortization by segment?
        Depreciation and amortization is as follows:
4.     What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
        The favorable US dollar impact on revenue and operating income is as follows:
5.     What was your cash flow from operations for the second quarter 2004 and 2003?
        Cash provided by operating activities was $82.4 million and $73.7 million for the second quarter of 2004 and 2003, respectively.
6.     What was the level of debt?
        Total debt was comprised of the following:
7.     What was the level of capital spending in the second quarter of 2004 and 2003?
        Capital expenditures, excluding property and equipment and other assets purchased in acquisitions, were as follows:
8.     What is the current authorization amount for stock buyback?
        As of June 30, 2004, approximately $62.3 million remained authorized for future share repurchases. We invested $35.0 million in open market stock purchases during the second quarter of 2004.
9.     Why is other income $39.7 million for Q2 2004 compared to $5.4 million for the same quarter last year?
        On May 5, 2004, Equifax, through its wholly owned subsidiary CD Holdings, Inc., completed the sale of 3,755,792 shares of common stock it owned in Intersections Inc., a provider of identity theft protection and credit management services, in an underwritten public offering for net proceeds of
$59.4 million. Immediately prior to the public offering, CD Holdings converted a $20.0 million senior secured convertible note issued to it by Intersections in November 2001 into 3,755,792 shares of Intersections common stock, or approximately 26.9% of Intersections' outstanding stock before its public offering.
        The book value of our investment in Intersections was $22.3 million, including accrued interest of $2.3 million. In the second quarter of 2004, we recorded, net of income taxes of $13.8 million, a net gain of $23.0 million.
10.   What assets are included in your asset impairment and related charges for the second quarter 2004? In which segments?
Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
A.    Revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue
        RECONCILIATION OF REVENUE TO REVENUE EXCLUDING MORTGAGE-RELATED AND eMARKETING REVENUE
Quarter
YTD
B.    Free Cash Flow
Quarter
        RECONCILIATION OF CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 AND 2003, TO FREE CASH FLOW FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 AND 2003
YTD
        RECONCILIATION OF CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 AND 2003, TO FREE CASH FLOW FOR THE SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 AND 2003
C.    Income from continuing operations excluding the effect of the sale of investment, asset impairment and related charges
        RECONCILIATION OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS EXCLUDING THE EFFECT OF THE SALE OF INVESTMENT, ASSET IMPAIRMENT AND RELATED CHARGES
Notes to our Non-GAAP Financial Measures
        Revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue is a Non-GAAP financial measure and is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our core business activities, unaffected by the fluctuations of the mortgage industry and the performance of our eMarketing business. Revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue is useful to management and investors for comparative purposes.
        We calculate free cash flow by subtracting capital-related expenditures from cash provided by operations. Free cash flow is useful to management and the Company's investors in measuring the cash generated by the Company that is available to be used for business and strategic initiatives. Free cash flow is not a measurement of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, our calculation of free cash flow may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore, comparability may be limited.
        Equifax believes that income from continuing operations excluding the effect of the sale of investment in Intersections Inc., asset impairment and related charges is a measure that should be presented in addition to income from continuing operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and is useful to investors. The following matters should be considered when evaluating this non-GAAP financial measure:
 - 
Equifax reviews the operating results of its businesses excluding the impact of the sale of investment, asset impairment and related charges because it provides an additional basis of comparison. We believe that these items are unusual in nature, and would not be indicative of ongoing operating results. As a result, management believes such charges should be excluded in order to compare past, current, and future periods.
 - 
Asset impairments principally represent adjustments to the carrying value of certain assets and do not typically require a cash payment.
 - 
Asset impairment and related charges are typically material and are considered to be outside the normal operations of a business. Corporate management is responsible for making decisions about asset impairment and related charges.
QuickLinks
Equifax Reports Record Revenue and Earnings


