FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20040122084310.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
        (c) Exhibits.
        Exhibit 99.1    Press release issued by the Registrant on January 22, 2004.
        Exhibit 99.2    Additional Risk Factor
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure
        The following information and exhibit is being furnished under Item 9 (Regulation FD Disclosure) and Item 12 (Results of Operations and Financial Condition):
        On January 22, 2004, Equifax Inc. issued a press release dated January 22, 2004, announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached as an exhibit hereto and incorporated by reference into this Item 9 and into Item 12.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 22, 2004
        The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
QuickLinks
SIGNATURES
Exhibit Index

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
Atlanta
, January 22, 2004Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today reported continued revenue growth and strong cash flow in its global information businesses. For the year, Equifax revenues increased 10 percent to a record $1.2 billion. Cash provided by operating activities for the year reached $290 million compared with $249 million for 2002.
Reported fourth-quarter earnings from continuing operations were $31.3 million or 23 cents per share, compared to $51.7 million or 38 cents per share in 2002. The fourth quarter earnings per share includes the previously announced 17-cent per share charge, which primarily relates to Equifax's Direct Marketing Services unit. Excluding this charge, fourth quarter earnings were 40 cents per share, up 5 percent.
"This performance for the year reflects a significant accomplishment for the company," said Thomas F. Chapman, Equifax chairman and CEO. "Our financial results were driven by strong results in North America, Europe and Latin America. They also reflect the decisive action we took to reposition one of our business units and assure continued growth for Equifax in 2004 and beyond," he added.
For the full year, earnings per share from continuing operations, reflecting the charge, totaled $1.31 per share. Excluding the charge, full-year earnings increased 7 percent to $1.48 from $1.38 per share.
Highlights for the quarter as compared to fourth quarter 2002...
 - 
Grew North American revenue by 5 percent to $236 million, excluding eMarketing
 - 
Increased Consumer Direct revenues by 56 percent to $19 million
 - 
Grew Latin America revenues 29 percent, with a 27 percent operating margin
 - 
Improved European operating margins significantly, reaching a record 20 percent, versus 14 percent in the same period in 2002
 - 
Realigned senior management structure into business units reporting directly to the CEO
Highlights for the year as compared to 2002...
 - 
Grew revenue to $1.2 billion, up 10 percent
 - 
Increased income from continuing operations, excluding the charge, 5 percent to $201 million
 - 
Increased North American revenues by 13 percent to $1 billion
 - 
Grew Consumer Direct revenues 76 percent
 - 
Increased Latin America revenues by 4 percent to $80 million
 - 
Increased Equifax Europe operating margins to 16 percent from 10 percent in 2002
 - 
Free cash flow for the year was $236 million, up 22 percent
2004 Outlook
Equifax expects earnings per share to grow to between $1.58 and $1.65. Revenue growth is expected to be between 4 percent and 5 percent. Free cash flow will be approximately $245 million to $265 million, and capital expenditures are targeted at $55 million.
Teleconference
Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss results will be held today at 9 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at www.equifax.com. Please note that Microsoft Media Player is required to access the Webcast. This can be downloaded from www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer.
Equifax has presented in this press release and will discuss during the teleconference certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities Exchange Commission. As required by SEC rules a reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP measure is presented below in the Common Questions and Answers (Unaudited) that are a part of this press release. This information can also be found under the heading "non-GAAP Financial Measures" in the Investor Center on the company's website at www.equifax.com.
About Equifax
Equifax Inc. is a global leader in turning information into intelligence. For businesses, Equifax provides faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the appropriate customers. For consumers, Equifax offers easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services and better insight into and management of their personal credit.
Equifax. Information that Empowers.
Safe Harbor
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these statements. Those factors could include changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for the Company's products and services, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws governing our business, and other factors discussed in the "forward-looking information" section and the "risk factor" section of the management's discussion and analysis included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2003, the "Additional Risk Factor" filed as an exhibit to a Form 8-K filed on January 22, 2004, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
*
Does not total due to rounding
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)December 31, 2003
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
1.
Can you provide a further breakdown of revenue in the Equifax North America segment?
Equifax North America revenue consists of the following components:
2.
Can you provide a breakout of costs of services and SG&A as a percent of sales?
Operating expenses as a percent of revenue are as follows for continuing operations:
3.
Can you give depreciation and amortization by segment?
Depreciation and amortization is as follows:
4.
What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
The favorable US dollar impact on revenue and operating income is as follows:
5.
What was your cash flow from operations for the fourth quarter 2003 and 2002?
Cash provided by operating activities was $96.4 million and $98.8 million for the fourth quarter of 2003 and 2002, respectively.
6.
What was the level of debt?
Total debt was comprised of the following:
7.
What was the level of capital spending?
Capital expenditures, excluding property and equipment and other assets purchased in acquisitions, were as follows:
8.
Why did other income increase for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003?
The primary reason for the increase in other income is the cash proceeds we are receiving on the purchased paper from the sale of our risk management business in October 2000.
9.
Why did the year's effective tax rate decline to 37%?
We were able to reduce our estimated effective tax rate for 2003 by 1.5 percent through effective state tax planning. We have implemented state tax planning strategies related to the apportionment of state income taxes and franchise taxes. The reduced state income taxes payable is the primary reason for the 1.5 percent reduction in the overall effective state tax rate.
10.
What is the current authorization amount for stock buyback?
As of December 31, 2003, approximately $127 million remained authorized for future share repurchases. We invested $95 million on Treasury Stock purchases during 2003.
11.
What is the status of the sale of the discontinued operations?
During the third quarter of 2002, we made the decision to exit the commercial business in Spain. As of December 31, 2003, the letter of intent that we had entered into during the third quarter of 2003, did not materialize into a contract to purchase the business. As of today, we are negotiating with a new prospective buyer and will explore other options, should our negotiation prove unsuccessful. The commercial business in Spain was written down another $2.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2003, to reflect the impact of the current offer on the carrying value of the discontinued operations. We still expect to complete the sale, of the commercial business in Spain in the very near future.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
A1.
Income from continuing operations excluding the effect of the December charge (1)(2)
RECONCILIATION OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS EXCLUDING THE EFFECT OF THE DECEMBER CHARGE
A2.
Income from continuing operations excluding the effect of the December charge (1)(2)
RECONCILIATION OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS EXCLUDING THE EFFECT OF THE DECEMBER CHARGE
B.
North American revenue excluding eMarketing
RECONCILIATION OF REVENUE FOR NORTH AMERICA TO REVENUE FOR NORTH AMERICA EXCLUDING eMARKETING
C1.
Free Cash Flow (3)
RECONCILIATION OF CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2002, TO FREE CASH FLOW FOR THE QUARTER ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2002
C2.
Free Cash Flow (3)
RECONCILIATION OF CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2002, TO FREE CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2002
C3.
Projected Free Cash Flow for the Twelve Months ending December 31, 2004 (3)
RECONCILIATION OF ESTIMATED CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2004, TO ESTIMATED FREE CASH FLOW FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2004
D.
Actual / Projected Revenue, excluding Mortgage and eMarketing revenue, for the Twelve Months ended / ending December 31, 2003 and 2004
RECONCILIATION OF ACTUAL / PROJECTED REVENUE FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED / ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2004, TO ACTUAL / PROJECTED REVENUE, EXCLUDING MORTGAGE AND eMARKETING REVENUE, FOR THE TWELVE MONTHS ENDED / ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND 2004
Notes to our Non-GAAP Financial Measures
(1)
December Chargea charge relating primarily to the consolidation of our eMarketing unit as described in our press release issued on December 19, 2003 (the "December charge").
(2)
Equifax believes that income from continuing operations excluding the impact of our December charge, as defined above, is a measure that should be presented in addition to income from continuing operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and is useful to investors. The following matters should be considered when evaluating this non-GAAP financial measure:
 - 
Equifax reviews the operating results of its businesses excluding the impacts of restructurings and impairments because it provides an additional basis of comparison. We believe that these items are unusual in nature, and would not be indicative of ongoing operating results. As a result, management believes charges such as the December charge should be excluded in order to compare past, current, and future periods.
 - 
Generally speaking, the effects of restructurings includes cash and non-cash charges and are the result of employee layoffs, consolidation of assets and related expenses. These actions result in a more efficient operating structure for future periods.
 - 
Asset impairments principally represent adjustments to the carrying value of certain assets and do not typically require a cash payment.
 - 
Asset impairments, restructurings and related expenses are typically material and are considered to be outside the normal operations of a business. Corporate management is responsible for making decisions about restructurings and related expenses.
 - 
There can be no assurance that additional impairments and restructurings will not occur in future periods. To compensate for this limitation, we believe that it is appropriate to consider both income from continuing operations determined under GAAP as well as income from continuing operations excluding the impact of asset impairments, restructurings and related expenses.
(3)
Free cash flow is commonly used by investors to measure a company's liquidity. We feel it adds insight to the GAAP measure of cash provided by operating activities by subtracting uses of cash for capital related expenditures. Free cash flow is not a measurement of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, our calculation of free cash flow may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore, comparability may be limited.
QuickLinks
Equifax Finishes 2003 with Record Revenues and Strong Cash Flow

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
EXHIBIT 99.2
Compliance with recently adopted amendments to the Fair Credit Reporting Act could result in material additional costs to us.
The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, or "FACTA," which amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act, was signed into law by the President in December 2003. This legislation, among other things, will require us on an annual basis to provide free credit reports to consumers upon request. These reports may be requested by e-mail, telephone, or mail through a centralized source which we and other nationwide credit reporting agencies must establish and support. In addition consumers will be entitled to a free credit report upon request if a report results in the consumer obtaining credit terms less favorable than those provided to a majority of the credit provider's customers. FACTA will also require us to provide credit scores on an annual basis to requesting consumers for a reasonable fee, as determined by the Federal Trade Commission, or "FTC." The FTC is in the process of preparing regulations to implement these requirements, including establishment of the centralized source to handle credit report requests and development of procedures to stagger such requests. The FTC regulations are expected to be completed by June 2004 and to become effective December 1, 2004, at which time we will be required to begin providing credit scores and free credit reports. Additional provisions of FACTA, among other things, impose requirements designed to reduce consumer identity theft, limit provision of medical information, and require reports to the FTC regarding consumer complaints. We will need to modify our procedures and systems to deal with these and similar FACTA provisions. Compliance with FACTA could result in additional expense that could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the net impact of this legislation on our business, however, until final FTC regulations are available and we have completed the design and implementation of internal steps to lessen its impact and have evaluated possible opportunities to market fee-generating products to consumers requesting free reports.
QuickLinks
ADDITIONAL RISK FACTOR


