FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20040422082707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
        (c) Exhibits
        Exhibit 99.1    Press release issued by Equifax Inc. on April 22, 2004.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
        Equifax Inc. is furnishing the information required by Item 12 of Form 8-K, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition," under this Item 9.
        On April 22, 2004, Equifax Inc. issued a press release relating to the financial results of its first quarter ended March 31, 2004. A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference into this Item 9 and into Item 12. The information in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 22, 2004
        The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
QuickLinks
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
SIGNATURE
Exhibit Index

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 99.1
Atlanta
, April 22, 2004Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today reported record revenue of $314 million in the first quarter of 2004, an increase of 4 percent over the first quarter of 2003. Net income from continuing operations was $51 million, up 13 percent. Earnings per share from continuing operations jumped 15 percent to 38 cents, exceeding analysts' average estimate.
"Equifax is off to an outstanding start in 2004," said Thomas F. Chapman, Equifax chairman and CEO. "We continue to execute our growth strategy and deliver exceptional results. Personal Solutions, formerly Consumer Direct, delivered record-setting revenues and profits. Within our North American business, we are growing and increasing our share with our largest customers while recording major new wins. Small business credit information produced record revenue as well, as we further integrate analytics into our offerings. And our businesses in Europe and Latin America had one of their strongest quarters ever for growth and profitability."
Highlights for the quarter...
 - 
Revenue grew 4 percent. Revenue, excluding mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue, grew 12 percent;
 - 
North America revenue was $255 million, unchanged from 2003. North America revenue, excluding mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue, grew 9 percent;
 - 
Revenue for consumer and commercial information services in North America grew 6 percent to $174 million with volume rising 21 percent;
 - 
Revenue in Canada grew 14 percent to $23 million;
 - 
SBC Communications Inc. entered into a multi-million-dollar, multi-year contract to use Interconnect, Equifax North America's new online application processing and decisioning solution;
 - 
Also in North America, Equifax generated $2 million in revenue from its small business credit information service, providing a unique data and technology platform for small business lending;
 - 
Marketing Services in North America reported revenue of $56 million, a decline of 27 percent. The operating margin improved to 24 percent from 23 percent in 2003;
 - 
Revenue for Personal Solutions, formerly the Consumer Direct business group, soared 69 percent to $25 million, serving over 6.5 million customers. The operating margin improved to 27 percent versus 11 percent in 2003;
 - 
In Europe, revenue rose 23 percent to $38 million, with the operating margin improving to 13 percent;
 - 
In Latin America, revenue jumped 33 percent to $21 million on a 17 percent operating margin, down from 18 percent in 2003.
Teleconference
Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss results will be held today at 9 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at
www.equifax.com
. Please note that Microsoft Media Player is required to access the Webcast. This can be downloaded from
www.microsoft.com/windows/mediaplayer
.
Equifax has presented in this press release and will discuss during the teleconference certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission. As required by SEC rules, a reconciliation of such non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures is provided in the "Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)" portion of this press release. This information can also be found under the heading "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in the Investor Center on the company's website at
www.equifax.com
.
About Equifax
Equifax Inc. is a global leader in turning information into intelligence. For businesses, Equifax provides faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the appropriate customers. For consumers, Equifax offers easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services and better insight into and management of their personal credit.
Equifax. Information that Empowers.
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Those factors include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for the Company's products and services, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws governing our business, and certain other factors discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
*
Does not total due to rounding
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
EQUIFAX INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)March 31, 2004
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
1A.
Can you provide a further breakdown of revenue in the Equifax North America segment?
Equifax North America revenue consists of the following components:
1B.
Can you provide operating income for your North American operating segments for 2003?
2.
Can you provide a breakout of costs of services and SG&A as a percent of sales?
Operating expenses as a percent of revenue are as follows for continuing operations:
3.
Can you give depreciation and amortization by segment?
Depreciation and amortization is as follows:
4.
What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
The favorable US dollar impact on revenue and operating income is as follows:
5.
What was your cash flow from operations for the first quarter 2004 and 2003?
Cash provided by operating activities was $31.6 million and $28.4 million for the first quarter of 2004 and 2003, espectively.
6.
What was the level of debt?
Total debt was comprised of the following:
7.
What was the level of capital spending?
Capital expenditures, excluding property and equipment and other assets purchased in acquisitions, were as follows:
8.
What is the current authorization amount for stock buyback?
As of March 31, 2004, approximately $97.0 million remained authorized for future share repurchases. We invested $30.0 million on open market stock purchases during the first quarter of 2004.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
A1.
Revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue
RECONCILIATION OF REVENUE TO REVENUE EXCLUDING MORTGAGE-RELATED AND eMARKETING REVENUE
A2.
North American revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue
RECONCILIATION OF NORTH AMERICAN REVENUE TO NORTH AMERICAN REVENUE EXCLUDING MORTGAGE-RELATED AND eMARKETING REVENUE
B1.
Free Cash Flow
RECONCILIATION OF CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 31, 2004 AND 2003, TO FREE CASH FLOW FOR THE QUARTER ENDED MARCH 31, 2004 AND 2003
Notes to our Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue is a Non-GAAP financial measure and is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our core business activities, unaffected by the fluctuations of the mortgage industry and the performance of our eMarketing business. Revenue excluding Mortgage-related and eMarketing revenue is useful to management and investors for comparative purposes.
We calculate free cash flow by subtracting capital-related expenditures from cash provided by operations. Free cash flow is useful to management and the Company's investors in measuring the cash generated by the Company that is available to be used for business and strategic initiatives. Free cash flow is not a measurement of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In addition, our calculation of free cash flow may be different from the calculation used by other companies and therefore, comparability may be limited.
QuickLinks
EARNINGS RELEASE AND ATTACHMENTS
Equifax Reports Record First Quarter Revenue of $314 million and Earnings Per Share of 38 Cents


