FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20050519105105.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
FORM 8-K
Not Applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
      (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
      (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02              Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
                On May 17, 2005, Lee A. Ault III retired from the Board of Directors of Equifax Inc. (the "Company"). Also on that date, the Board elected Charles G. Betty to the Board as a Class I director to serve a term that will expire at the 2006 annual meeting of shareholders.  Mr. Betty was also appointed to the Board's Finance Committee.  He has been President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of EarthLink, Inc. since February 2000.
 
A copy of the Company's press release dated May 19, 2005 announcing Mr. Betty's election to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.  Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
ATLANTA , May 19, 2005
- Equifax Inc. (EFX) announced today the election of Charles G. "Garry" Betty to its board of directors. Betty is president, CEO and a member of the Board of Directors of EarthLink, Inc.(ELNK), one of the nation's leading Internet service providers with over 5 million subscribers nationwide. Before joining EarthLink in 1996, Betty served as president and CEO of Digital Communications Associates, Inc. (DCA), and was the youngest CEO on the New York Stock Exchange.
NYSE:
NASDAQ:
Prior to DCA, Betty was a senior executive with Hayes Microcomputer Products and has been credited with turning the modem into a consumer commodity. A Georgia native, Betty is a graduate from the Georgia Institute of Technology with a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering.
"As the leader of a world-class technology company like EarthLink, Garry has earned the reputation as both a visionary and a savvy business leader. His experience and technology knowledge will make him an invaluable addition to our board," said Thomas F. Chapman, Equifax's chairman and CEO.
"I have long respected Equifax for its industry leadership and outstanding financial performance. It is an honor for me to serve on this board of directors," said Betty.
Betty's term as a director will extend through 2006 and he will serve as a member of the board's finance committee.
 
About Equifax
Equifax Inc. is a global leader in turning information into intelligence. For businesses, Equifax provides faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the right
customers. For consumers, Equifax offers easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services, and better insight into and management of their personal credit. Equifax. Information That Empowers.
 


