FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20051020072547.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
FORM 8-K
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 20, 2005, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September 30, 2005.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibits
(c)
         
 
Press release of Equifax Inc. dated October 20, 2005.
99.1
       
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
Equifax Inc. (NYSE: ) today reported third quarter 2005 earnings with record revenue and maintained consistent growth in profits across all businesses.
ATLANTA, October 20, 2005 
EFX
 
Earnings from continuing operations were $63 million, a 17 percent increase from the third quarter of 2004, on 17 percent growth in revenue to a record of $375 million.  Earnings per share were $0.47, up 17 percent. Cash flow provided by operating activities for the third quarter of 2005 was $103 million, up 10 percent.
 
Adjusted on a non-GAAP basis for the impact of the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act ("FACT Act"), revenue was $365 million, up 14 percent; earnings from continuing operations were $59 million, up 11 percent; and earnings per share were $0.45, up 11 percent.
 
"Equifax's continued strong earnings are a testament to the talented team that continues to guide this great company," said Richard F. Smith, Equifax chairman-elect and CEO. Smith joined Equifax on September 19.  "Our business leaders are executing our strategy with precision and that is reflected in our numbers."
 
Third Quarter 2005 Financial Highlights
 
Operating profit margin was 29 percent compared to 30 percent in the third quarter 2004.
 - 
     
 
Revenue of $375 million, an increase of 17 percent from last year, reflected continued strong performances by North America Information Services, Personal Solutions and Latin America.
 - 
     
Free cash flow (a non-GAAP measure), which is an alternative measure of liquidity (and is defined as cash provided by operating activities less capital-related expenditures), was $92 million, an increase of 13 percent from $81 million in third quarter 2004.
 - 
     
 
Total debt at September 30, 2005 decreased by $47 million to $608 million from December 31, 2004.  The remaining borrowing capacity at September 30, 2005 under Equifax's committed financing facilities totaled $407 million.
 - 
     
 
Equifax repurchased 1.2 million shares of its common stock for $40 million and had $144 million remaining under its current authorization.
 - 
     
 
Third Quarter 2005 Operating Highlights
 
North America
 
Total revenue increased 17 percent to $306 million in the third quarter, compared to $261 million in the prior year.    North America Information Services reported revenue of $211 million, up 19 percent; excluding the impact of the FACT Act (a non-GAAP measure), $201 million, up 13 percent.  Marketing Services revenue in North America was $66 million, up 9 percent.  Personal Solutions increased revenue 22 percent to $29 million.
 
Europe
 
Total revenue was $35 million, relatively flat compared to 2004.  Operating margin was 25 percent, up from 24 percent in 2004.
 
Latin America
 
Total revenue rose to $35 million, up 47 percent, reflecting strong growth in all country markets.  Operating margin was 29 percent, up from 20 percent in 2004.
 
About Equifax
 
Equifax Inc. is a global leader in turning information into intelligence. For businesses, Equifax provides faster and easier ways to find, approve and market to the appropriate customers. For consumers, Equifax offers easier, instantaneous ways to buy products or services and better insight into and management of their personal credit.
 
Equifax. Information that Empowers.
 
Earnings Webcast
 
Equifax's quarterly teleconference to discuss financial results will be held today at 9:00 a.m. (EDT). The live audio Webcast of the speakers' presentations will be available at www.equifax.com and a replay will be available at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the Webcast.
 
Non-GAAP Reconciliation Information
 
Equifax has presented in this press release and will discuss during the teleconference certain non-GAAP financial measures the company believes are useful to investors to assess the company's operating performance.  These non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from the non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies.  As required by SEC rules, a reconciliation of such measures to the most comparable GAAP measure is presented below in the Common Questions and Answers (Unaudited) that are a part of this press release. This information can also be found under the heading "Non-GAAP/GAAP Measures" in the Investor Center on our website at www.equifax.com.  Non-GAAP financial measures should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements.  Those factors include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for Equifax's products and services, our ability to develop new products and services, pricing and other competitive pressures, risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data, risks associated with the integration of acquisitions and other investments, the outcome of pending litigation, changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including the cost of compliance with the FACT Act and federal and state responses to identity theft concerns, and certain other factors discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of Equifax's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, and in our other filings with the SEC.  Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited) - September 30, 2005
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
1.
             
Can you provide a further analysis of revenue and operating income?
 
Equifax revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
 
 
 
nm - - not meaningful
 
 
 
nm - - not meaningful
 
2a.
       
Can you provide a further breakdown of revenue in the Equifax North America segment?
 
Equifax North America revenue consists of the following components:
 
 
 
2b.
  
Can you provide a further breakdown of revenue in the Equifax North America segment excluding the impact of the FACT Act (non-GAAP)?
 
Equifax North America revenue excluding FACT Act consists of the following components:
 
 
 
3.
             
Can you provide a breakout of costs of services and SG&A as a percentage of sales?
 
Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue are as follows for continuing operations:
 
 
4.
             
Can you give depreciation and amortization by segment?
 
Depreciation and amortization is as follows:
 
 
5.
             
Can you reconcile restated financial data to what was previously reported in September 2004 due to the sale of the Italian businesses?
 
 
6.
             
What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
 
The U.S. dollar impact on revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
7.
             
What was your cash flow from operations for the third quarter 2005 and 2004?
 
Cash provided by operating activities was $103.3 million and $94.1 million for the third quarter of 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
8.
             
What was the level of debt?
 
Total debt was comprised of the following:
 
 
9a.
       
What was the level of capital spending in the third quarter of 2005 and 2004?
 
Capital expenditures, excluding property and equipment and other assets purchased in acquisitions, were as follows:
 
 
9b.
       
Of the third quarter capital spending, how much was FACT Act related?
 
 
10.
      
What is the current authorization amount for stock buybacks?
 
As of September 30, 2005, approximately $144.3 million remained authorized for future share repurchases. We invested $40.0 million in open market purchases of our stock during the third quarter of 2005.
 
11.
      
Why is other income $9.9 million for 2005 YTD compared to $45.4 million for the same period last year?
 
On May 5, 2004, Equifax, through its wholly owned subsidiary CD Holdings, Inc., completed the sale of 3,755,792 shares of common stock it owned in Intersections Inc., a provider of identity theft protection and credit management services, in an underwritten public offering for net proceeds of $59.4 million.  Immediately prior to the public offering, CD Holdings, Inc. converted a $20.0 million senior secured convertible note issued to it by Intersections Inc. in November 2001 into 3,755,792 shares of Intersections Inc. common stock, or approximately 26.9% of Intersection Inc.'s outstanding stock before its public offering.
 
The book value of our investment in Intersections Inc. was $22.3 million, including accrued interest of $2.3 million.  In the second quarter of 2004, we recorded, net of income taxes of $13.8 million, a net gain of $23.0 million.
 
12.
      
What assets are included in your asset impairment and related charges for 2004 YTD?  In which segments?
 
 
Excludes $5.3 million in previously reported asset impairment and related charges related to Italy for the third quarter 2004.  These charges have been reclassified to loss from discontinued operations.
*
                
Reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures to the corresponding GAAP measure (Unaudited) - September 30, 2005
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
A.
           
Free Cash Flow
 
Quarter
 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005 AND 2004, TO FREE CASH FLOW FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005 AND 2004
 
 
YTD
 
RECONCILIATION OF CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005 AND 2004, TO FREE CASH FLOW FOR THE NINE MONTHS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2005 AND 2004
 
B.
           
Income from continuing operations excluding items impacting comparability:
 
 
Excludes $5.3 million in previously reported asset impairment and related charges related to Italy for the third quarter 2004.  Thesecharges have been reclassified to loss from discontinued operations.
*
           
 
C.
           
Cumulative FACT Act cash flow impact
 
D.
           
Consolidated revenue growth, excluding regulatory recovery fee
 
 
nm - not meaningful
 
E.
             
North America Information Services revenue growth, excluding regulatory recovery fee
 
 
nm - - not meaningful
 
F.
             
U.S. Consumer and Commercial Services revenue growth, excluding regulatory recovery fee
 
 
nm - - not meaningful
 
G.
           
Mortgage Services revenue growth, excluding regulatory recovery fee
 
 
nm - - not meaningful
Notes to Our Non-GAAP Financial Measures That Supplement GAAP Accounting Measures
 
Certain disclosures prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") contained in the preceding reconciliation are supplemented by disclosures that are not prepared in conformity with GAAP.  These non-GAAP disclosures exclude certain items from the nearest equivalent GAAP presentations.  We believe that a meaningful analysis of our financial performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance and our judgments about the likelihood that particular factors will repeat.  In some cases, short-term patterns and long-term trends may be obscured by unique large factors or one-time events.  For example, events or trends in a particular business segment may be so significant as to obscure patterns and trends of our business in total.  For this reason, we believe that investors may find it useful to see our "free cash flow," as well as our revenue growth, net income and earnings per share excluding the effects of the FACT Act and the unusual items from the second quarter of 2004 (which included a gain from the sale of our investment in Intersections Inc. and an impairment charge relating to our Marketing business).
 
We calculate free cash flow by subtracting capital-related expenditures from cash provided by (used in) operating, financing and investing activities.  We believe free cash flow provides an important measure because it is one factor in determining our liquidity and financial health, showing the cash generated by us that is available to be used for dividends and discretionary investment.  Free cash flow is not a measurement of liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss), operating income (loss), cash flow from operating activities, or the change in cash on the balance sheet and may not be comparable with cash flow as defined by other companies.
Free Cash Flow 
 
The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 ("FACT Act") amended the Fair Credit Reporting Act and became law in December 2003.  Reference is made to the summary of the FACT Act under "FACT Act Update" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of our 2004 Form 10-K and second quarter 2005 Form 10-Q.  During 2004 we established, along with other nationwide credit reporting agencies, a centralized request facility, Central Source, LLC, which is owned jointly by Equifax, Experian Information Solutions, Inc. and TransUnion LLC, to provide to consumers, upon their request, a free annual credit file disclosure on a phased-in basis beginning on December 1, 2004.  On December 1, 2004, we began to assess a regulatory recovery fee for certain of our business-to-business products to help mitigate the costs required to implement the provisions of the FACT Act.  The initial implementation of the annual free credit report required by the FACT Act has been completed.  Our related recovery fee will remain in effect as we continue to recover the capital costs incurred and the ongoing costs involved in complying with the FACT Act.  We have incurred significant compliance costs to implement the FACT Act requirements and have captured those cumulative expenses and related capital investment in a table in our non-GAAP financial measures, "Cumulative FACT Act cash flow impact."
Cumulative FACT Act cash flow impact 
 
We believe the FACT Act impacts the comparability of results and growth rates of certain of our North America Information Services business, including its underlying U.S. Consumer and Commercial, Mortgage Services, Information Services and Personal Solutions businesses.  Our management believes that excluding the impact of the FACT Act provides a useful perspective on changes in the basic underlying operations of these businesses and our company as a whole, and is a key indicator of financial performance.  The sale in the second quarter of 2004 of Intersections Inc. for an after-tax net gain of $23 million was a material and unusual gain relative to the operating results for the periods presented.  The asset impairment and related charges totaling $2 million for the second quarter of 2004 were also of a material and unusual nature for the operating results for the periods presented.
Income from Continuing Operations 
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should not be construed as being more important than comparable GAAP measures.  They are presented because management believes this
information provides (1) a more meaningful, consistent comparison of our underlying operational performance and trends for the periods presented, on a basis consistent with our chief decision makers' means of evaluating operating performance, including those related to staffing, future management priorities and how it will direct future operating expenses; and (2) additional information for investors to assess changes between periods that better reflect our ongoing operations.  The items included in these non-GAAP disclosures, and the basis for excluding them, are set forth below.
 
As noted previously, we began assessing a regulatory recovery fee for certain of our business-to-business products in December 2004 to help mitigate the costs required to comply with the provisions of the FACT Act.  We believe providing revenue measures excluding this fee provides a more consistent comparison of our underlying operating results and trends for the periods presented, on a basis consistent with management's means of evaluating revenue growth.  The fee was not in effect in the third quarter of 2004, and the phase-in of initial FACT Act compliance requirements was not completed until September 1, 2005.
Consolidated Revenue Growth, Excluding Regulatory Recovery Fee; North America Information Services Revenue Growth, Excluding Regulatory Recovery Fee; U.S. Consumer and Commercial Revenue Growth, Excluding Regulatory Recovery Fee; Mortgage Services Revenue Growth, Excluding Regulatory Recovery Fee
 


