FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20060807080125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act  (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange  Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 5.02               Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On August 7, 2006, the Board of Directors of Equifax Inc. (the "Company")  elected two new directors to fill vacancies on the Board: Robert D. Daleo, to serve a term as a Class III director that will expire at the 2007 annual meeting of shareholders, and Siri S. Marshall, to serve a term as a Class II director that will expire at the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders.  Mr. Daleo was also appointed to serve on the Audit Committee, and Ms. Marshall to the Governance Committee, of the Board.  As previously announced, D. Raymond Riddle retired from the Board of Directors on May 17, 2006.
A copy of the Company's press release dated August 7, 2006, announcing the election of Ms. Marshall and Mr. Daleo to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 of Form 8-K, the information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
 
2
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: August 7, 2006
3
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
NEWS RELEASE
Contact Information:
David Rubinger (404) 885-8555 david.rubinger@equifax.com
ATLANTA , Aug. 7, 2006
- Equifax Inc. (EFX) announced today that its board of directors has elected Robert D. Daleo and Siri S. Marshall to the board. Daleo will serve  for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2007 and was also appointed to the board's audit committee.   Marshall will serve for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2008 and was appointed to the board's governance committee.
NYSE:
Daleo, 57, has been executive vice president and chief financial officer of The Thomson Corporation
(NYSE: TOC; TSX: TOC)
since 1998, and a member of its board of directors since 2001. Thomson is a provider of integrated information solutions to business and professional customers. From 1994 to 1998, he served in senior operations, planning, finance and business development positions with Thomson.  Daleo held various financial and operating positions with The McGraw-Hill Companies and Automatic Data Processing, Inc. prior to joining Thomson in 1994.  He is a member of Fordham University's President's Council and the Advisory Board of Rutgers University's Prudential Center for Business Ethics.
Marshall, 58, currently serves as senior vice president, general counsel and secretary and chief governance and compliance officer at General Mills, Inc. (NYSE: GIS), a diversified foods maker and distributor. In addition, she managed General Mills' tax function from 1994 to 1999 and its corporate affairs group from 1999 to 2005. Prior to
1
joining General Mills in 1994, Marshall was senior vice president, general counsel and secretary of Avon Products, Inc.  She also is a director of Ameriprise Financial, Inc., where she serves on the compensation and benefits committee and as chair of the nominating and governance committee; a director of the International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution, the Yale Law School Center for the Study of Corporate Law; and a trustee of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts and the General Mills Foundation. Marshall has served as a director of NovaCare, Inc., Jafra Cosmetics International and Snack Ventures Europe.  She has also served as a member of The New York Stock Exchange Legal Advisory Committee.
"We are delighted to welcome two outstanding members of our board," said Richard F. Smith, Equifax's chairman and CEO.  "As a leader of a world-class information company like Thomson, Bob's extensive global financial and operating experience will add to the board's strengths in those areas.  Siri is a widely respected and influential general counsel of General Mills, one of the world's most trusted and respected companies, and we look forward to benefiting from her international experience and insight."
"I look forward to working with the Equifax board and management and to offering my background in finance and operations as a resource for the board," said Daleo.
"Equifax is an industry leader and innovator in its industry.  I am excited at the opportunity to be part of this accomplished board of directors and to contribute to the direction of this company," said Marshall.
About Equifax
 (www.equifax.com)
Equifax Inc. is a global leader in information technology that enables and secures global commerce with consumers and businesses. We are one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data. Utilizing our databases, advanced analytics and proprietary enabling technology, we provide real-time answers for our customers. This
2
innovative ability to transform information into intelligence is valued by customers across a wide range of industries and markets. Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax employs approximately 4,700 people in13 countries throughout North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax was founded 107 years ago, and today is a member of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
3


