FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20070629171713.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
              
 
Item 8.01       Other Events
On June 28, 2007, Equifax Inc. (the "Company") issued and sold $300 million principal amount of 6.30% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Notes") and $250 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2037 (the "2037 Notes," and together with the 2017 Notes, the "Notes") in a public offering.  The 2017 Notes and the 2037 Notes were sold pursuant to underwriting agreements dated June 25, 2007 and June 26, 2007, respectively, each with Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as the representatives of the underwriters named therein.  The underwriting agreements for the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Notes are attached hereto as Exhibits 1.1 and 1.2, respectively.  The Notes were registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to a shelf registration on Form S-3 (No. 333-144009).  The Company received an aggregate of approximately $543.7 million in proceeds, net of the underwriting discount but before other offering expenses, from the sale of the Notes.
The terms of the Notes are governed by an indenture dated as of June 29, 1998, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, National Association, which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as trustee, as amended and supplemented pursuant to a first supplemental indenture with regard to the 2017 Notes and a second supplemental indenture with regard to the 2037 Notes, each dated June 28, 2007, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.  The first supplemental indenture, which includes the form of the 2017 Notes, and the second supplemental indenture, which includes the form of the 2037 Notes, are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively.  The terms of the 2017 Notes and the terms of the 2037 Notes are described in the prospectus supplements of the Company dated June 25, 2007 and June 26, 2007, respectively, each as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 27, 2007.
Copies of the press releases dated June 25, 2007 and June 26, 2007 announcing the public offering of the 2017 Notes and the 2037 Notes are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
Item 9.01       Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.
 
2
 
 
3
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
4
The following exhibits are being filed with this report:
 
5

Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
ii
 
 
iii
25, 2007
June
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
 Street New York, New York 10019
c/o BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC 9 West 57
th
Ladies and Gentlemen:
.  Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the "Company"), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in (the "Underwriters"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of US$300,000,000aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.300% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "Securities").  Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "Representatives") in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
Introductory
Schedule A
The Securities will be issued pursuant to, and will form a separate series of senior debt securities under, an indenture, dated as of June 29, 1998 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, National Association, which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as indenture trustee (the "Trustee").  Certain terms of the Securities will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture").  The Securities will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary") pursuant to a letter of representations, to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary (the "DTC Agreement").
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-144009), which contains a base prospectus (the "Base Prospectus"), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of senior debt securities, including the Securities, of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act.  Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under
] [a/p.m.] on June [], 2007 (the "Initial Sale Time").  All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("EDGAR").
the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the 1933 Act, is called the "Registration Statement."  The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "Execution Time") by the parties hereto.  The term "Preliminary Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b).  Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to [
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included," "described," or "stated" in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act"), which is incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
SECTION 1. .   The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a "Representation Date") and agrees with each of the Underwriters as follows:
Representations and Warranties
(a) .  The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act.  The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.  In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Trust Indenture Act").
Compliance with Registration Requirements
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration
2
Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; provided, however, that, with respect to clause (ii) hereof, the Company makes no representations or warranties as to those parts of the Registration Statement which shall constitute Statements of Eligibility and Qualification on Form T-1 (the "Form T-1") under the Trust Indenture Act.  At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(b) .  The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated June 25, 2007, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and identified in Annex II hereto.  As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package
(c) .  The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (collectively, the "Incorporated Documents") (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission complied and will comply, as the case may be, as of their respective dates of filing, in all material respects with the requirements of the
Incorporated Documents
3
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "Exchange Act Regulations") and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(d) .  (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
(e) .  (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
(f) .  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Securities under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus.  If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict.  The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
4
that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
(g) .  The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annexes I or II hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company
(h) .  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement
(i) .  The Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Securities
(j) .  The Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Base Indenture
(k) .  The Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Supplemental Indenture
(l) .  The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the respective descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Securities and the Indenture
(m) .  Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given
No Material Adverse Change
5
in the Disclosure Package: (i) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business, or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "Material Adverse Change"); and (ii) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement, in each case, outside the ordinary course of business, that, taken together with any other related or similar transactions or agreements, is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, indirect, direct or contingent, that, taken together with any other related or similar liability or obligation, indirect, direct or contingent, is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity.
(n) .  Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 and supporting schedules filed with the Commission and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are an independent registered public or certified public accountants with respect to the Company within the meaning of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants for the Company
(o) .  KPMG LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and supporting schedules filed with the Commission and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, were, prior to the Company's acquisition of TALX Corporation ("TALX"), an independent registered public or certified public accountants with respect to TALX within the meaning of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants for TALX Corporation
(p) .  The financial statements, together with the related schedules and notes, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries, or of TALX and its subsidiaries, as the case may be, as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified.  Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto.  No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement.  In addition, the pro forma financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein, have been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been properly compiled on the bases described therein, and the assumptions used in
Preparation of the Financial Statements
6
the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein.
(q) .   The Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under each of this Agreement, the DTC Agreement, the Securities, and the Indenture.  Each significant subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business in all material respects as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  Each of the Company and each significant subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition, financial or otherwise, or on the earnings, business, or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Securities or the Indenture (a "Material Adverse Effect").  All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each significant subsidiary of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "significant subsidiary" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries
(r) .  The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus as of the date set forth therein (other than for subsequent issuances of capital stock, if any, pursuant to existing reservations, agreements or employee benefit plans or upon exercise of outstanding options).  All of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock (the "Common Stock") have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters
(s) .  Neither the Company nor any of its significant subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or by-laws or is in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, would be in default) ("Default") under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, note, contract, franchise, lease or other instrument to which the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound (including, without limitation, the Company's amended and restated revolving credit agreement dated as of July 24, 2006 (as further amended on May 11 and 15, 2007), 4.95% notes due 2007 and 6.9% debentures due 2028), or to which any of the property or
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required
7
assets of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries is subject (each, an "Existing Instrument"), except for such Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the DTC Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, and the issuance and delivery of the Securities, and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and (i) will not result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any significant subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company or any significant subsidiary, except, in each case, for such violations, conflicts, breaches, Defaults, liens, charges or encumbrances as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, and except for such consents the failure of which to obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency, is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, and the issuance and delivery of the Securities, or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except such as may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the NASD, Inc. (the "NASD") in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Underwriters.
(t) .  Except as described or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (ii) which has as the subject thereof any property owned by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, where in any such case there is a reasonable possibility that such action, suit or proceeding might be determined adversely to the Company or such subsidiary and any such action, suit or proceeding, if so determined adversely, would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.  No material labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, is threatened or imminent, that, individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Material Actions or Proceedings
8
(u) .  The Company and its subsidiaries own license, or possess the trademarks, trade names, patent rights, copyrights, licenses, approvals, trade secrets and other similar rights (collectively, "Intellectual Property Rights") reasonably necessary to conduct their businesses as now conducted by them, except such as to which the failure to so own, license, or possess would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any written notice of infringement or conflict with asserted Intellectual Property Rights of others, which infringement or conflict, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, finding or ruling, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property Rights
(v)   The Company and each subsidiary possess such valid certificates, authorizations or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except those the failure of which to possess would not have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
All Necessary Permits, Etc.
(w) .  All material federal, state and foreign income and franchise tax returns required to be filed by the Company and any of its subsidiaries have been filed, other than those filings being contested in good faith, and all material taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, have been paid, other than those taxes which are being contested in good faith or the nonpayment of which could not have a Material Adverse Effect.  The Company has made adequate charges, accruals and reserves in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(o) above in respect of all federal, state and foreign income and franchise taxes for all periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
Tax Law Compliance
(x) .  The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Investment Company Act").
Company Not an "Investment Company"
(y) .  The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably likely to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
(z) .  The Company and its subsidiaries maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
Company's Accounting System
9
(aa) .  The Company maintains a system of accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls and Procedures
(bb) .  Since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls
(cc) .  There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and, to the Company's knowledge, any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
(dd) .  With respect to the stock options (the "Stock Options") granted pursuant to the stock-based compensation plans of the Company and its subsidiaries (the "Company Stock Plans"), (i) each Stock Option intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" under Section 422 of the Code so qualifies, (ii) each grant of a Stock Option was duly authorized no later than the date on which the grant of such Stock Option was by its terms to be effective (the "Grant Date") by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the board of directors of the Company (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof) and any required stockholder approval by the necessary number of votes or written consents, and the award agreement governing such grant (if any) was duly executed and delivered by each party thereto, (iii) each such grant was made in accordance with the terms of the Company Stock Plans, the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws and regulatory rules or requirements, including the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and any other exchange on which Company securities are traded, (iv) the per share exercise price of each Stock Option was equal to the fair market value of a share of common stock on the applicable Grant Date and (v) each such grant was properly accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the financial statements (including the related notes) of the Company and disclosed in the Company's filings with the Commission in accordance with the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws.
Stock Options
(ee) .  None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
10
any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA, including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure continued compliance therewith.
"FCPA" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(ff) .  The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws
(gg) .  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws
(hh) .  Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company (i) is in compliance with all laws and permits relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environmental or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), and (ii) has received all permits required of it under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, except where such noncompliance or such failure to receive required permits would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Environmental Laws
(ii) .  The Company and its subsidiaries and any "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (collectively, "ERISA")) established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or
ERISA Compliance
11
their "ERISA Affiliates" (as defined below) are in compliance in all material respects with ERISA.  "ERISA Affiliate" means, with respect to the Company or a subsidiary, any member of any group of organizations described in Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (the "Code") of which the Company or such subsidiary is a member.  No "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) for which advance notice is required to be made to PBGC under the regulations under ERISA has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any "employee pension benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates.  No "employee pension benefit plan" subject to Title IV of ERISA established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates, if such "employee pension benefit plan" were terminated, would have any "amount of unfunded benefit liabilities" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA), except for the amount of unfunded benefit liabilities, if any, as would not, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company, its subsidiaries nor any of their ERISA Affiliates has incurred or reasonably expects to incur any liability under (i) Title IV of ERISA with respect to termination of, or withdrawal from, any "employee pension benefit plan" or (ii) Sections 412, 4971, 4975 or 4980B of the Code that would, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  Each "employee pension benefit plan" established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates that is intended to be qualified under Section 401 of the Code is so qualified and the Company is not aware of any circumstances likely to cause the loss of such qualification.
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
SECTION 2. .
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Securities
(a) .  The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Securities upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth.  On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 17 hereof, at a purchase price of 99.129% of the principal amount of the Securities, respectively, payable on the Closing Date.
The Securities
(b) .  Delivery of certificates for the Securities in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment of the purchase price therefor shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m. New York City time, on June 28, 2007 (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 17), or such other time and date as the Underwriters shall designate by notice to the Company (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
The Closing Date
12
(c) .  The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Securities as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Securities
(d) .  Payment for the Securities shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Securities
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase.  The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(e) .  The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Securities at the Closing Date against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor.  The certificates for the Securities shall be in such denominations specified by the Representatives in writing at least one business day preceding the Closing Date and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of the Depositary, pursuant to the DTC Agreement, and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate.  Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Securities
SECTION 3. .  The Company further covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
Additional Covenants
(a) .  The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act Regulations, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes.  The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and,
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
13
in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document.  The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
(b) .  During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act Regulations (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act Regulations), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, the Company shall furnish to the Representatives for review a copy of each such document a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, and the Company shall not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel to the Underwriters reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments
(c) .  The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Securities Act Regulations and the Exchange Act and the Exchange Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel to the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) promptly notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendments or supplements as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendments or supplements as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(d) .  The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts,
Delivery of Registration Statements
14
and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters.  The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(c) .  The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act.  The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request.  The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
(f) .  The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify the Securities for offer and sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the Blue Sky or state securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request, shall comply with such laws and shall maintain such qualifications and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities.  The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or a dealer in securities or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation in respect of doing business in an jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.  The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification of (or any such exemption relating to) the Securities for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance
(g) .  The Company shall use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds
(h) .  The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
The Depositary
(i) .  During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations
15
(j) .  During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Securities or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Securities (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Securities).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities
(k) .  The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Securities, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "Final Term Sheet").  Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.  A form of the Final Term Sheet for the Securities is attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Final Term Sheet
(l) .  The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company and the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives and the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus."  The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.  The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
(m) .  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv)
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
16
promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness.  The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible.  References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post effective amendment, as the case may be.
(n) .  The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
(o) .  During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will comply with all applicable securities laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act
(p) .  The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Manipulation of Price
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
SECTION 4. .  The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder, including, (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Securities (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Securities, (v) all filing fees, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification of) all or any part of the Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (vii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities with the ratings agencies, (viii) any filing fees incident to, and any reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with the review by the NASD, if any, of the terms of the sale of the Securities, (ix) all fees and expenses
Payment of Expenses
17
(including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Securities by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section.  Except as provided in this Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
 
SECTION 5. .  The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a) .The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.  The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
 
(b) .On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from (i) Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountant's "comfort letters" to an underwriter, delivered according to Statement of Auditing Standards Nos. 72 and 76 (or any successor bulletins), with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements, pro forma financial information and certain other financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and (ii) KPMG LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for TALX, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountant's "comfort letters" to an underwriter, delivered according to Statement of Auditing Standards Nos. 72 and 76 (or any successor bulletins), with respect to pro forma financial information and certain other financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter
 
(c) .  If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Securities has been filed with the NASD for review, the NASD shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection
18
(d) .  For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change
(i)            there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change that, in the judgment of the Representatives, makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the completion of the offering or the sale of and payment for the Securities; and
(ii)           there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act.
(e) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Alston & Bird LLP, counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as .  Such opinion shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
Exhibit A-1
(f) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Kent E. Mast, Esq., Chief Legal Officer for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as .  Such opinion shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
Opinion of Chief Legal Officer
Exhibit A-2
(g) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
(h) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, on behalf of the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect set forth in subsection (d)(ii) of this Section 5, and further to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate
(i)            the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose has been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
(ii)           the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement;
(iii)          for the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date there has not occurred any Material Adverse Change;
19
(iv)          the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of the Closing Date; and
(v)           the Company has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date.
(i) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from each of (i) Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, and (ii) KPMG LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for TALX, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(j) .  On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Section 4, Section 6, Section 8, Section 9 and Section 11 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
20
SECTION 6. .  If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Securities on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof (other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 17, or the occurrence of an event specified in clause (ii), (iii), or (vi) of Section 10), the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Securities, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
SECTION 7. ..  This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties thereto.
Effectiveness of this Agreement
SECTION 8. .
Indemnification
(a) .  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).  The indemnity
Indemnification of the Underwriters
provided, however
21
agreement set forth in this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
(b) .  Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expenses as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action.  The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information that furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in (i) the last paragraph on the front cover of the Preliminary Prospectus and Prospectus regarding delivery of the Securities, (ii) the fourth full paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and (iii) the eighth full paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus; and the Underwriters confirm that such statements are correct. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers
(c) .  Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
22
such failure.  In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties.  Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (together with local counsel), approved by the indemnifying party (the Representatives in the case of Section 8(b) and Section 9), representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
provided, however,
(d) .The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8 hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements
 
23
SECTION 9. .  If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate initial offering price of the Securities as set forth on such cover.  The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.  The provisions set forth in Section 8 with respect to notice of commencement of any action shall apply if a claim for contribution is to be made under this Section 9; that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under Section 8 for purposes of indemnification.
provided, however,
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Underwriters' respective obligations to
24
contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments set forth opposite their names in .  For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee or agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
Schedule A
SECTION 10. .  Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or by the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the NASD; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any federal, New York or Georgia authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities; (iv) since the execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change the effect of which, in the judgment of the Representatives, makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the completion of the offer or the sale of and payment for the Securities; (v) the Company shall have sustained a loss by strike, fire, flood, earthquake, accident or other calamity of such character as in the judgment of the Representatives may interfere materially with the conduct of the business and operations of the Company regardless of whether or not such loss shall have been insured; or (vi) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States.  Any termination pursuant to this Section 10 shall be without liability on the part of the Company to any Underwriter, except that the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the expenses of the Underwriters pursuant to Sections 4 and 6 hereof, any Underwriter to the Company, or of any party hereto to any other party except that the provisions of Section 8 and Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
Termination of this Agreement
SECTION 11. .  The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of its or their partners, officers, directors, employees or any controlling person, as the case may be, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
25
SECTION 12. .  Each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees with the Company that it will comply with the selling restrictions listed in Annex III hereto in respect of the offering, sale and delivery of the Securities.
Selling Restrictions
SECTION 13. .  All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Notices
If to the Underwriters:
 Street New York, NY 10019
Banc of America Securities LLC 40 West 57
th
Facsimile:  (646) 313-4803 Attention:  High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
with a copy to:
Shearman & Sterling LLP 599 Lexington Avenue New York, NY 10022
Facsimile:  (646) 848-4813 Attention:  Michael J. Schiavone, Esq.
If to the Company:
Equifax Inc. 1550 Peachtree Street, N.W. Atlanta, GA 30309
Facsimile:  (404) 885-8988 Attention:  Lee Adrean, Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
with a copy to:
Alston & Bird LLP 1201 West Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA 30309
Facsimile:  (404) 253-8348 Attention:  M. Hill Jeffries, Esq. and Michael P. Reed, Esq.
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
26
SECTION 14. .This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 17 hereof, and to the benefit of the agents, employees, officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 and Section 9, and in each case their respective successors.  Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling person referred to in Sections 8 and 9 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained.  This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successor, and the controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm, corporation or employees.  The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Securities from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Successors
 
SECTION 15. .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof.  If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
SECTION 16. .  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE.
Governing Law Provisions
SECTION 17. .  Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby ("Related Proceedings") may be instituted in the federal courts of the United States of America located in the City and County of New York or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City and County of New York (collectively, the "Specified Courts"), and each party irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding.  Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail to such party's address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court.  The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Consent to Jurisdiction
SECTION 18. .  If any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on the Closing Date, and the aggregate number of Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate number of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the number of
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
27
Securities set forth opposite their respective names on bears to the aggregate number of Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Underwriters with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase all of the Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities and the aggregate number of Securities with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate number of Securities to be purchased on the Closing Date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.  In any such case either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Schedule A
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 17.  Any action taken under this Section 17 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
SECTION 19. .  The Company acknowledges and agrees that:  (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Fiduciary Duty
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
28
any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
SECTION 20. .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof.  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit.  The Table of Contents and the section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions
29
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement among the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
Acting as Representatives of the
several Underwriters named in
the attached Schedule A
By: Banc of America Securities LLC
 
 
SCHEDULE A
 
A-1
ANNEX I
Final Term Sheet dated June 25, 2007
I-1
ANNEX II
None.
II-1
ANNEX III
European Economic Area
(a)
          
In relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive, each Underwriter represents and agrees that with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Member State it has not made and will not make an offer of Securities to the public in that Member State, except that it may, with effect from and including such date, make an offer of Securities to the public in that Member State:
at any time to legal entities which are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities;
                                         
at any time to any legal entity which has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 43,000,000; and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 50,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated accounts; or
                                         
at any time in any other circumstances which do not require the publication by us of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive (except in reliance on Article 3.2(b) of the Prospectus Directive).
                                         
For the purposes of the above, the expression an "offer of Securities to the public" in relation to any Securities in any Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the Securities to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe the Securities, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in that Member State.
United Kingdom
(b)
          
Each Underwriter has represents and agrees that it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) in connection with the issue or sale of the Securities in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of such Act does not apply to us and it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of such Act with respect to anything done by it in relation to any Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
III-1
EXHIBIT A-1
The opinion of Alston & Bird LLP, counsel for the Company, to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(e) of the Purchase Agreement, shall be substantially to the effect that:
(i)            The Company is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Georgia.
(ii)           The Company has corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture, the Securities, and the DTC Agreement.
(iii)          The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(iv)          The Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, moratorium and other laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors generally, and to the limitation that the enforceability thereof (including by means of specific performance) may be subject to certain equitable defenses and to the discretion of the court before which proceedings may be brought including traditional equitable defenses such as waiver, laches and estoppel; good faith and fair dealing; reasonableness; materiality of the breach; impracticability or impossibility of performance; and the effect of obstruction or failure to perform or otherwise act in accordance with an agreement by any person other than the obligor thereunder (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) (the "Bankruptcy and Equity Exception").
(v)           The Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception.
(vi)          Each of the Securities are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued, and delivered in the manner provided in the Indenture (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee) and paid for as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
(vii)         The statements in the Base Prospectus under the caption "Description of the Debt Securities" and in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes," insofar as such statements constitute summaries of
A-1-1
legal matters, documents, or legal proceedings referred to therein, fairly summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
(viii)        The statements in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "United States Federal Income Tax Consequences," insofar as such statements purport to constitute a summary of the U.S. federal tax laws referred to therein, fairly summarize, in all material respects, the U.S. federal tax laws referred to therein.
(ix)           No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or registration, qualification, or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency, is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture or the issuance and delivery of the Securities, except such as may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws, and from the NASD, Inc., in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Underwriters.
(x)            The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification and contribution sections of the Underwriting Agreement, as to which we express no opinion) will not (a) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company; or (b) to the best of our knowledge, result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation, or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company.
(xi)           The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described under the caption: "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
(xii)          The Base Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
In addition, we confirm that we have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company and of TALX, the Underwriters' representatives and the Underwriters' counsel at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus were discussed and, although we have not independently verified and are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (other than as specified above), on the basis of the foregoing (relying as to materiality to the extent we deem appropriate upon facts provided to us by officers or other representatives of the Company and without independent verification of such facts), no facts have come to our attention that causes us to believe that (a) the Registration Statement, as of the date it became effective (I) did not comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (II) contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (b) the
A-1-2
Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time (as defined in the Underwriting Agreement), contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (c) the Prospectus, as of its date or as of the Closing Date, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  We express no opinion with respect to the financial statements, notes and schedules and other financial and statistical data included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus.
The foregoing opinions are limited to the federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the state of Georgia, and with respect to the matters set forth in paragraphs (iv), (v), and (vi), the laws of the State of New York.
A-1-3
EXHIBIT A-2
The opinion of Kent E. Mast, Esq., Chief Legal Officer of the Company, to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(f) of the Purchase Agreement, shall be substantially to the effect that:
(i)            The Company has been duly incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and license its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(ii)           The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(iii)          Each Significant Subsidiary (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and license its properties and to conduct its business in all material respects as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and, to the best of my knowledge, is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(iv)          All of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or, to the best of my knowledge, any pending or threatened claim.
(v)           The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification and contribution sections of the Underwriting Agreement, as to which I express no opinion) will not (a) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of any Significant Subsidiary; (b) constitute a breach of, or default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to any agreement or instrument of indebtedness described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, or to the best of my knowledge, any other material Existing Instrument, which breach, default, lien, charge or encumbrance would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; or (c)  to the best of my knowledge, result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation, or administrative or court decree applicable to any Significant Subsidiary.
A-2-1
(vi)          The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
(vii)         The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules therein, as to which no opinion need be rendered), when they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
(viii)        To the best of my knowledge, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary is in violation of its charter or by-laws or any law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, and to the best of my knowledge, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary is in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any material Existing Instrument, except in each such case for such violations or defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
The foregoing opinions are limited to the federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the state of Georgia, and with respect to the matters set forth in paragraphs (iii), (iv) and (v) as they relate to Equifax Plc, the laws of the United Kingdom.
To the extent that the opinions expressed in paragraphs (iii), (iv) and (v) involve the laws of the United Kingdom, I have relied with respect to certain matters of law upon the opinion of Addleshaw Booth & Co dated of even date herewith.
A-2-2
EXHIBIT B
EQUIFAX INC.
Form of Final Term Sheet
 
B-1
 
 
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold these notes. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
www.sec.govdg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at
.  Alternatively, Banc of America Securities LLC or Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or
, or Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC at 1-866-289-1262.
B-2

Exhibit 1.2
 
i
 
 
ii
 
 
iii
26, 2007
June
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
 Street New York, New York  10019
c/o BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC 9 West 57
th
Ladies and Gentlemen:
.  Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the "Company"), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in (the "Underwriters"), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of US$250,000,000aggregate principal amount of the Company's 7.000% Senior Notes due 2037 (the "Securities").  Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "Representatives") in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
Introductory
Schedule A
The Securities will be issued pursuant to, and will form a separate series of senior debt securities under, an indenture, dated as of June 29, 1998 (the "Base Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, National Association, which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as indenture trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the first supplemental indenture to be dated as of June 28, 2007 between the Company and the Trustee.   Certain terms of the Securities will be established pursuant to a second supplemental indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture") to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture").  The Securities will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary") pursuant to a letter of representations, to be dated as of the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 below), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary (the "DTC Agreement").
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-144009), which contains a base prospectus (the "Base Prospectus"), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of senior debt securities, including the Securities, of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Securities Act"), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act.  Such registration statement, including the financial
statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the 1933 Act, is called the "Registration Statement."  The term "Prospectus" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "Execution Time") by the parties hereto.  The term "Preliminary Prospectus" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b).  Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 5:00 p.m. on June 26, 2007 (the "Initial Sale Time").  All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("EDGAR").
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included," "described," or "stated" in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder (collectively, the "Exchange Act"), which is incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
SECTION 21. .   The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a "Representation Date") and agrees with each of the Underwriters as follows:
Representations and Warranties
(a) .  The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act.  The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.  In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the "Trust Indenture Act").
Compliance with Registration Requirements
2
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; provided, however, that, with respect to clause (ii) hereof, the Company makes no representations or warranties as to those parts of the Registration Statement which shall constitute Statements of Eligibility and Qualification on Form T-1 (the "Form T-1") under the Trust Indenture Act.  At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(b) .  The term "Disclosure Package" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated June 26, 2007, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an "Issuer Free Writing Prospectus"), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and identified in Annex II hereto.  As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package
(c) .  The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (collectively, the "Incorporated Documents") (i) at the time they were or
Incorporated Documents
3
hereafter are filed with the Commission complied and will comply, as the case may be, as of their respective dates of filing, in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "Exchange Act Regulations") and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(d) .  (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
(e) .  (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
(f) .  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Securities under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus.  If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict.  The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
4
conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
(g) .  The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annexes I or II hereto or the Registration Statement.
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company
(h) .  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement
(i) .  The Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Securities
(j) .  The Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Base Indenture
(k) .  The Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
Authorization of the Supplemental Indenture
(l) .  The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the respective descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Securities and the Indenture
5
(m) .  Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package: (i) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business, or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a "Material Adverse Change"); and (ii) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement, in each case, outside the ordinary course of business, that, taken together with any other related or similar transactions or agreements, is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, indirect, direct or contingent, that, taken together with any other related or similar liability or obligation, indirect, direct or contingent, is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity.
No Material Adverse Change
(n) .  Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 and supporting schedules filed with the Commission and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are an independent registered public or certified public accountants with respect to the Company within the meaning of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants for the Company
(o) .  KPMG LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007 and supporting schedules filed with the Commission and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, were, prior to the Company's acquisition of TALX Corporation ("TALX"), an independent registered public or certified public accountants with respect to TALX within the meaning of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Accountants for TALX Corporation
(p) .  The financial statements, together with the related schedules and notes, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries, or of TALX and its subsidiaries, as the case may be, as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified.  Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto.  No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement.  In addition, the pro forma financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the information shown therein, have been prepared in accordance with the
Preparation of the Financial Statements
6
Commission's rules and guidelines with respect to pro forma financial statements and have been properly compiled on the bases described therein, and the assumptions used in the preparation thereof are reasonable and the adjustments used therein are appropriate to give effect to the transactions and circumstances referred to therein.
(q) .   The Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under each of this Agreement, the DTC Agreement, the Securities, and the Indenture.  Each significant subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business in all material respects as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  Each of the Company and each significant subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition, financial or otherwise, or on the earnings, business, or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Securities or the Indenture (a "Material Adverse Effect").  All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each significant subsidiary of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term "significant subsidiary" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries
(r) .  The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the column entitled "Actual" under the caption "Capitalization" in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus as of the date set forth therein (other than for subsequent issuances of capital stock, if any, pursuant to existing reservations, agreements or employee benefit plans or upon exercise of outstanding options).  All of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock (the "Common Stock") have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters
(s) .  Neither the Company nor any of its significant subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or by-laws or is in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, would be in default) ("Default") under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, note, contract, franchise, lease or other instrument to which the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound (including, without limitation, the Company's amended and restated revolving credit
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required
7
agreement dated as of July 24, 2006 (as further amended on May 11 and 15, 2007), 4.95% notes due 2007 and 6.9% debentures due 2028), or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries is subject (each, an "Existing Instrument"), except for such Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the DTC Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, and the issuance and delivery of the Securities, and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and (i) will not result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any significant subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company or any significant subsidiary, except, in each case, for such violations, conflicts, breaches, Defaults, liens, charges or encumbrances as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, and except for such consents the failure of which to obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency, is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, and the issuance and delivery of the Securities, or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except such as may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the NASD, Inc. (the "NASD") in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Underwriters.
(t) .  Except as described or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened (i) against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (ii) which has as the subject thereof any property owned by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, where in any such case there is a reasonable possibility that such action, suit or proceeding might be determined adversely to the Company or such subsidiary and any such action, suit or proceeding, if so determined adversely, would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.  No material labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, is threatened or imminent, that, individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
No Material Actions or Proceedings
8
(u) .  The Company and its subsidiaries own license, or possess the trademarks, trade names, patent rights, copyrights, licenses, approvals, trade secrets and other similar rights (collectively, "Intellectual Property Rights") reasonably necessary to conduct their businesses as now conducted by them, except such as to which the failure to so own, license, or possess would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any written notice of infringement or conflict with asserted Intellectual Property Rights of others, which infringement or conflict, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, finding or ruling, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
Intellectual Property Rights
(v)   The Company and each subsidiary possess such valid certificates, authorizations or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except those the failure of which to possess would not have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
All Necessary Permits, Etc.
(w) .  All material federal, state and foreign income and franchise tax returns required to be filed by the Company and any of its subsidiaries have been filed, other than those filings being contested in good faith, and all material taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, have been paid, other than those taxes which are being contested in good faith or the nonpayment of which could not have a Material Adverse Effect.  The Company has made adequate charges, accruals and reserves in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(o) above in respect of all federal, state and foreign income and franchise taxes for all periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
Tax Law Compliance
(x) .  The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the "Investment Company Act").
Company Not an "Investment Company"
(y) .  The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably likely to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
(z) .  The Company and its subsidiaries maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
Company's Accounting System
9
(aa) .  The Company maintains a system of accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Internal Controls and Procedures
(bb) .  Since the end of the Company's most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Company's internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls
(cc) .  There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and, to the Company's knowledge, any of the Company's directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the "Sarbanes-Oxley Act"), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
(dd) .  With respect to the stock options (the "Stock Options") granted pursuant to the stock-based compensation plans of the Company and its subsidiaries (the "Company Stock Plans"), (i) each Stock Option intended to qualify as an "incentive stock option" under Section 422 of the Code so qualifies, (ii) each grant of a Stock Option was duly authorized no later than the date on which the grant of such Stock Option was by its terms to be effective (the "Grant Date") by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the board of directors of the Company (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof) and any required stockholder approval by the necessary number of votes or written consents, and the award agreement governing such grant (if any) was duly executed and delivered by each party thereto, (iii) each such grant was made in accordance with the terms of the Company Stock Plans, the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws and regulatory rules or requirements, including the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and any other exchange on which Company securities are traded, (iv) the per share exercise price of each Stock Option was equal to the fair market value of a share of common stock on the applicable Grant Date and (v) each such grant was properly accounted for in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the financial statements (including the related notes) of the Company and disclosed in the Company's filings with the Commission in accordance with the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws.
Stock Options
(ee) .  None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
10
any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the FCPA, including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any "foreign official" (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure continued compliance therewith.
"FCPA" means Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
(ff) .  The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "Money Laundering Laws") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws
(gg) .  Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department ("OFAC"); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds, to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws
(hh) .  Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company (i) is in compliance with all laws and permits relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environmental or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (collectively, "Environmental Laws"), and (ii) has received all permits required of it under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, except where such noncompliance or such failure to receive required permits would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Environmental Laws
(ii) .  The Company and its subsidiaries and any "employee benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (collectively, "ERISA")) established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or
ERISA Compliance
11
their "ERISA Affiliates" (as defined below) are in compliance in all material respects with ERISA.  "ERISA Affiliate" means, with respect to the Company or a subsidiary, any member of any group of organizations described in Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (the "Code") of which the Company or such subsidiary is a member.  No "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) for which advance notice is required to be made to PBGC under the regulations under ERISA has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any "employee pension benefit plan" (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates.  No "employee pension benefit plan" subject to Title IV of ERISA established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates, if such "employee pension benefit plan" were terminated, would have any "amount of unfunded benefit liabilities" (as defined in Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA), except for the amount of unfunded benefit liabilities, if any, as would not, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Company, its subsidiaries nor any of their ERISA Affiliates has incurred or reasonably expects to incur any liability under (i) Title IV of ERISA with respect to termination of, or withdrawal from, any "employee pension benefit plan" or (ii) Sections 412, 4971, 4975 or 4980B of the Code that would, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.  Each "employee pension benefit plan" established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates that is intended to be qualified under Section 401 of the Code is so qualified and the Company is not aware of any circumstances likely to cause the loss of such qualification.
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
SECTION 22. .
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Securities
(a) .  The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Securities upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth.  On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 17 hereof, at a purchase price of 98.887% of the principal amount of the Securities, respectively, payable on the Closing Date.
The Securities
(b) .  Delivery of certificates for the Securities in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment of the purchase price therefor shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m. New York City time, on June 28, 2007 (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 17), or such other time and date as the Underwriters shall designate by notice to the Company (the time and date of such closing are called the "Closing Date").
The Closing Date
12
(c) .  The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Securities as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Securities
(d) .  Payment for the Securities shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Securities
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase.  The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
(e) .  The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Securities at the Closing Date against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor.  The certificates for the Securities shall be in such denominations specified by the Representatives in writing at least one business day preceding the Closing Date and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of the Depositary, pursuant to the DTC Agreement, and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate.  Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Securities
SECTION 23. .  The Company further covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
Additional Covenants
(a) .  The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act Regulations, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes.  The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and,
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
13
in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document.  The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
(b) .  During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act Regulations (the "Prospectus Delivery Period"), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act Regulations), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, the Company shall furnish to the Representatives for review a copy of each such document a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, and the Company shall not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel to the Underwriters reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments
(c) .  The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Securities Act Regulations and the Exchange Act and the Exchange Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel to the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) promptly notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendments or supplements as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendments or supplements as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
(d) .  The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts,
Delivery of Registration Statements
14
and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters.  The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(e) .  The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act.  The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request.  The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses
(f) .  The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify the Securities for offer and sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the Blue Sky or state securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request, shall comply with such laws and shall maintain such qualifications and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities.  The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or a dealer in securities or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation in respect of doing business in an jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject.  The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification of (or any such exemption relating to) the Securities for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance
(g) .  The Company shall use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds
(h) .  The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
The Depositary
(i) .  During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations
15
(j) .  During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Securities or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Securities (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Securities).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities
(k) .  The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Securities, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the "Final Term Sheet").  Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.  A form of the Final Term Sheet for the Securities is attached hereto as Exhibit B.
Final Term Sheet
(l) .  The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company and the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus" (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives and the Company is hereinafter referred to as a "Permitted Free Writing Prospectus."  The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping.  The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
(m) .  If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv)
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
16
promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness.  The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible.  References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post effective amendment, as the case may be.
(n) .  The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
Filing Fees
(o) .  During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will comply with all applicable securities laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Company's directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act
(p) .  The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
No Manipulation of Price
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
SECTION 24. .  The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder, including, (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Securities (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, this Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Securities, (v) all filing fees, attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification of) all or any part of the Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (vii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities with the ratings agencies, (viii) any filing fees incident to, and any reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with the review by the NASD, if any, of the terms of the sale of the Securities, (ix) all fees and expenses
Payment of Expenses
17
(including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Securities by the Depositary for "book-entry" transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section.  Except as provided in this Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
 
SECTION 25. .  The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
(a) .The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.  The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
 
(b) .On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from (i) Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountant's "comfort letters" to an underwriter, delivered according to Statement of Auditing Standards Nos. 72 and 76 (or any successor bulletins), with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements, pro forma financial information and certain other financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and (ii) KPMG LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for TALX, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountant's "comfort letters" to an underwriter, delivered according to Statement of Auditing Standards Nos. 72 and 76 (or any successor bulletins), with respect to pro forma financial information and certain other financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter
 
(c) .  If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Securities has been filed with the NASD for review, the NASD shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
No Objection
18
(d) .  For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change
(i)            there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change that, in the judgment of the Representatives, makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the completion of the offering or the sale of and payment for the Securities; and
(ii)           there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the Securities Act.
(e) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Alston & Bird LLP, counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as .  Such opinion shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
Exhibit A-1
(f) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Kent E. Mast, Esq., Chief Legal Officer for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as .  Such opinion shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
Opinion of Chief Legal Officer
Exhibit A-2
(g) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
(h) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, on behalf of the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect set forth in subsection (d)(ii) of this Section 5, and further to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate
(i)            the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose has been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
(ii)           the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement;
(iii)          for the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date there has not occurred any Material Adverse Change;
19
(iv)          the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of the Closing Date; and
(v)           the Company has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date.
(i) .  On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from each of (i) Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, and (ii) KPMG LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for TALX, a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
(j) .  On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Section 4, Section 6, Section 8, Section 9 and Section 11 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
20
SECTION 26. .  If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Securities on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof (other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 17, or the occurrence of an event specified in clause (ii), (iii), or (vi) of Section 10), the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Securities, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses
SECTION 27. ..  This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties thereto.
Effectiveness of this Agreement
SECTION 28. .
Indemnification
(a) .  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto).  The indemnity
Indemnification of the Underwriters
provided, however
21
agreement set forth in this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
(b) .  Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based upon (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expenses as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action.  The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information that furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in (i) the last paragraph on the front cover of the Preliminary Prospectus and Prospectus regarding delivery of the Securities, (ii) the fourth full paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and (iii) the eighth full paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus; and the Underwriters confirm that such statements are correct. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers
(c) .  Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
22
such failure.  In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties.  Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (together with local counsel), approved by the indemnifying party (the Representatives in the case of Section 8(b) and Section 9), representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
provided, however,
(d) .The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8 hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements
 
23
SECTION 29. .  If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate initial offering price of the Securities as set forth on such cover.  The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.  The provisions set forth in Section 8 with respect to notice of commencement of any action shall apply if a claim for contribution is to be made under this Section 9; that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under Section 8 for purposes of indemnification.
provided, however,
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public.
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  The Underwriters' respective obligations to
24
contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments set forth opposite their names in .  For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee or agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
Schedule A
SECTION 30. .  Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or by the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or the NASD; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any federal, New York or Georgia authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States' or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities; (iv) since the execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change the effect of which, in the judgment of the Representatives, makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the completion of the offer or the sale of and payment for the Securities; (v) the Company shall have sustained a loss by strike, fire, flood, earthquake, accident or other calamity of such character as in the judgment of the Representatives may interfere materially with the conduct of the business and operations of the Company regardless of whether or not such loss shall have been insured; or (vi) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States.  Any termination pursuant to this Section 10 shall be without liability on the part of the Company to any Underwriter, except that the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the expenses of the Underwriters pursuant to Sections 4 and 6 hereof, any Underwriter to the Company, or of any party hereto to any other party except that the provisions of Section 8 and Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
Termination of this Agreement
SECTION 31. .  The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of its or their partners, officers, directors, employees or any controlling person, as the case may be, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
25
SECTION 32. .  Each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees with the Company that it will comply with the selling restrictions listed in Annex III hereto in respect of the offering, sale and delivery of the Securities.
Selling Restrictions
SECTION 33. .  All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Notices
If to the Underwriters:
 Street New York, NY  10019
Banc of America Securities LLC 40 West 57
th
Facsimile:  (646) 313-4803 Attention:  High Grade Transaction Management/Legal
with a copy to:
Shearman & Sterling LLP 599 Lexington Avenue New York, NY  10022
Facsimile:  (646) 848-4813 Attention:  Michael J. Schiavone, Esq.
If to the Company:
Equifax Inc. 1550 Peachtree Street, N.W. Atlanta, GA  30309
Facsimile:  (404) 885-8988 Attention:  Lee Adrean, Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
with a copy to:
Alston & Bird LLP 1201 West Peachtree Street Atlanta, GA  30309
Facsimile:  (404) 253-8348 Attention:  M. Hill Jeffries, Esq. and Michael P. Reed, Esq.
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
26
SECTION 34. .This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 17 hereof, and to the benefit of the agents, employees, officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 and Section 9, and in each case their respective successors.  Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling person referred to in Sections 8 and 9 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained.  This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successor, and the controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm, corporation or employees.  The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Securities from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Successors
 
SECTION 35. .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof.  If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
SECTION 36. .  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE.
Governing Law Provisions
SECTION 37. .  Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby ("Related Proceedings") may be instituted in the federal courts of the United States of America located in the City and County of New York or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City and County of New York (collectively, the "Specified Courts"), and each party irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding.  Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail to such party's address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court.  The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Consent to Jurisdiction
SECTION 38. .  If any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on the Closing Date, and the aggregate number of Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate number of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the number of
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
27
Securities set forth opposite their respective names on bears to the aggregate number of Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Underwriters with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase all of the Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities and the aggregate number of Securities with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate number of Securities to be purchased on the Closing Date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.  In any such case either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Schedule A
As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 17.  Any action taken under this Section 17 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
SECTION 39. .  The Company acknowledges and agrees that:  (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Fiduciary Duty
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof.  The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
28
any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
SECTION 40. .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof.  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit.  The Table of Contents and the section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions
29
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement among the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC WACHOVIA CAPITAL MARKETS, LLC
Acting as Representatives of the
several Underwriters named in
the attached Schedule A
 
SCHEDULE A
 
A-1
ANNEX I
Final Term Sheet dated June 26, 2007
I-1
ANNEX II
None.
II-1
ANNEX III
European Economic Area
(a)
          
In relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive, each Underwriter represents and agrees that with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Member State it has not made and will not make an offer of Securities to the public in that Member State, except that it may, with effect from and including such date, make an offer of Securities to the public in that Member State:
at any time to legal entities which are authorized or regulated to operate in the financial markets or, if not so authorized or regulated, whose corporate purpose is solely to invest in securities;
             
at any time to any legal entity which has two or more of (1) an average of at least 250 employees during the last financial year; (2) a total balance sheet of more than 43,000,000; and (3) an annual net turnover of more than 50,000,000, as shown in its last annual or consolidated accounts; or
             
at any time in any other circumstances which do not require the publication by us of a prospectus pursuant to Article 3 of the Prospectus Directive (except in reliance on Article 3.2(b) of the Prospectus Directive).
             
For the purposes of the above, the expression an "offer of Securities to the public" in relation to any Securities in any Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the Securities to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe the Securities, as the same may be varied in that Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Member State and the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC and includes any relevant implementing measure in that Member State.
United Kingdom
(b)
          
Each Underwriter has represents and agrees that it has only communicated or caused to be communicated and will only communicate or cause to be communicated an invitation or inducement to engage in investment activity (within the meaning of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000) in connection with the issue or sale of the Securities in circumstances in which Section 21(1) of such Act does not apply to us and it has complied and will comply with all applicable provisions of such Act with respect to anything done by it in relation to any Securities in, from or otherwise involving the United Kingdom.
III-1
EXHIBIT A-1
The opinion of Alston & Bird LLP, counsel for the Company, to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(e) of the Purchase Agreement, shall be substantially to the effect that:
The Company is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Georgia.
(ix)
          
The Company has corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture, the Supplemental Indenture, the Securities, and the DTC Agreement.
(x)
           
The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(xi)
          
The Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, moratorium and other laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors generally, and to the limitation that the enforceability thereof (including by means of specific performance) may be subject to certain equitable defenses and to the discretion of the court before which proceedings may be brought including traditional equitable defenses such as waiver, laches and estoppel; good faith and fair dealing; reasonableness; materiality of the breach; impracticability or impossibility of performance; and the effect of obstruction or failure to perform or otherwise act in accordance with an agreement by any person other than the obligor thereunder (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) (the "Bankruptcy and Equity Exception").
(xii)
         
The Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception.
(xiii)
        
Each of the Securities are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued, and delivered in the manner provided in the Indenture (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee) and paid for as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
(xiv)
       
The statements in the Base Prospectus under the caption "Description of the Debt Securities" and in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of the Notes," insofar as such statements constitute summaries of
(xv)
        
A-1-1
legal matters, documents, or legal proceedings referred to therein, fairly summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
The statements in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "United States Federal Income Tax Consequences," insofar as such statements purport to constitute a summary of the U.S. federal tax laws referred to therein, fairly summarize, in all material respects, the U.S. federal tax laws referred to therein.
(xvi)
       
No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or registration, qualification, or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency, is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture or the issuance and delivery of the Securities, except such as may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws, and from the NASD, Inc., in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Underwriters.
(xvii)
      
The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification and contribution sections of the Underwriting Agreement, as to which we express no opinion) will not (a) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company; or (b) to the best of our knowledge, result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation, or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company.
(xviii)
     
The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described under the caption: "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
(xix)
        
The Base Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
(xx)
         
In addition, we confirm that we have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company and of TALX, the Underwriters' representatives and the Underwriters' counsel at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus were discussed and, although we have not independently verified and are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (other than as specified above), on the basis of the foregoing (relying as to materiality to the extent we deem appropriate upon facts provided to us by officers or other representatives of the Company and without independent verification of such facts), no facts have come to our attention that causes us to believe that (a) the Registration Statement, as of the date it became effective (I) did not comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (II) contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (b) the
A-1-2
Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time (as defined in the Underwriting Agreement), contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (c) the Prospectus, as of its date or as of the Closing Date, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  We express no opinion with respect to the financial statements, notes and schedules and other financial and statistical data included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus.
The foregoing opinions are limited to the federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the state of Georgia, and with respect to the matters set forth in paragraphs (iv), (v), and (vi), the laws of the State of New York.
A-1-3
EXHIBIT A-2
The opinion of Kent E. Mast, Esq., Chief Legal Officer of the Company, to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(f) of the Purchase Agreement, shall be substantially to the effect that:
The Company has been duly incorporated under the laws of the State of Georgia and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and license its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(xxi)
        
The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(xxii)
       
Each Significant Subsidiary (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and license its properties and to conduct its business in all material respects as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and, to the best of my knowledge, is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(xxiii)
      
All of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or, to the best of my knowledge, any pending or threatened claim.
(xxiv)
      
The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification and contribution sections of the Underwriting Agreement, as to which I express no opinion) will not (a) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of any Significant Subsidiary; (b) constitute a breach of, or default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to any agreement or instrument of indebtedness described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, or to the best of my knowledge, any other material Existing Instrument, which breach, default, lien, charge or encumbrance would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; or (c)  to the best of my knowledge, result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation, or administrative or court decree applicable to any Significant Subsidiary.
(xxv)
       
A-2-1
The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
(xxvi)
      
The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules therein, as to which no opinion need be rendered), when they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
(xxvii)
     
To the best of my knowledge, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary is in violation of its charter or by-laws or any law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, and to the best of my knowledge, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary is in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any material Existing Instrument, except in each such case for such violations or defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(xxviii)
    
The foregoing opinions are limited to the federal laws of the United States of America and the laws of the state of Georgia.
A-2-2
EXHIBIT B
EQUIFAX INC.
Form of Final Term Sheet
 
B-1
 
 
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold these notes. Each rating may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time, and should be evaluated independently of any other rating.
www.sec.govdg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at
.  Alternatively, Banc of America Securities LLC or Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling or e-mailing Banc of America Securities LLC at 1-800-294-1322 or
, or Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC at 1-866-289-1262.
B-2

EXHIBIT 4.1
, dated as of June 28, 2007, between EQUIFAX INC., a Georgia corporation (the "Issuer") and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. a corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (the "Trustee") under the Original Indenture (as hereinafter defined).
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
(AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., WHICH WAS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO),
 
(a)   RECITALS
WHEREAS,
the Issuer executed and delivered its Indenture (the "Original Indenture"), dated as of June 29, 1998, to the Trustee to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes debt securities evidencing its unsecured indebtedness.
Original
WHEREAS,
the
Indenture provides that by means of a supplemental indenture, the Issuer may create one or more series of its debt securities and establish the form and terms and conditions thereof.
the Issuer desires to issue a series of senior debt securities under the Original Indenture, and has duly authorized the creation and issuance of such series of debt securities and the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture to modify the Original Indenture and provide certain additional provisions as hereinafter described;
WHEREAS,
the Issuer and the Trustee deem it advisable to enter into this First Supplemental Indenture for the purposes of establishing the terms of such series of debt securities and providing for the rights, obligations and duties of the Trustee with respect to such debt securities;
WHEREAS,
all conditions and requirements of the Original Indenture necessary to make this First Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto and the execution and delivery thereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
the Board of Directors of the Issuer, acting through authority delegated to certain of its executive officers, has approved the creation of the Notes and the form, terms and conditions thereof;
concurrently with the execution hereof, the Issuer has delivered an Officers' Certificate and has caused its counsel to deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel; and
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
the consent of Holders to the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture is not required, and all other actions required to be taken under the Original Indenture with respect to this First Supplemental Indenture have been taken.
NOW, THEREFORE IT IS AGREED:
.  Pursuant to the terms hereof and Section 3.01 of the Original Indenture, the Issuer hereby creates a series of its debt securities which shall be known as the "6.30% Senior Notes due 2017" (the "Notes"), which Notes shall be deemed "Securities" for all purposes under the Original Indenture.
Section 1.1.  Designation of Series
.  The definitive form of the Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in attached hereto, which is incorporated herein and made part hereof.  The Notes shall bear interest, be payable and have such other terms as are stated in the form of Note and in the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this First Supplemental Indenture.  The Notes shall be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Section 1.2.  Form and Denomination of Notes
Exhibit A
.  Subject to Section 1.10 hereof, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes that may be issued under this First Supplemental Indenture is initially limited to $300,000,000.  The Notes may, upon the execution and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture or from time to time thereafter, be executed by the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Notes upon the delivery of an Issuer Order.
Section 1.3.  Amount of Series
.  The Notes are unsecured and shall rank equally among themselves and with all of the Issuer's other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Section 1.4.  Rank
.  No sinking fund shall be provided with respect to the Notes.
Section 1.5.  No Sinking Fund
.  Except as otherwise may be specified in this First Supplemental Indenture and in the Notes, Article Thirteen of the Original Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes.  Except as otherwise may be specified in this First Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the "Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of:
Section 1.6.  Optional Redemption
100% of the principal amount plus accrued an unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date; and
(i)           
the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
(ii)          
The Issuer will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to this Section 1.6, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depository shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is then permitted by the rules of the Depositary for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Issuer shall
provided
provided,
deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
For all purposes of this First Supplemental Indenture:
Section 1.7.  Definitions. 
(a)           Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings set forth in the Original Indenture;
(b)           a term defined anywhere in this First Supplemental Indenture (including the exhibits hereto) has the same meaning throughout;
(c)           the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
(d)           headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation;
(e)           the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.7(e):
"" shall mean, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" shall mean the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
 "" shall mean a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for the Notes.
Depository
shall mean an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
"Independent Investment Banker
"
"" shall mean, with respect to any redemption of Notes, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Original Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
"" shall mean (i) Banc of America Securities LLC and its successors, that if Banc of America Securities LLC or any such successor shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other three Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided,
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" shall mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
2
Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
"" means, with respect to the Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due at the related Redemption Date but before such redemption; provided, however, that if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, with respect to the Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Issuer on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
.  The Notes shall not be convertible or exchangeable for other securities or property.
Section 1.8.  Notes Not Convertible or Exchangeable
. The Notes shall be issued as Registered Securities in permanent global form, without coupons.  The initial Depositary for the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
Section 1.9.  Issuance of Notes; Selection of Depository
  From time to time subsequent to the date hereof, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, the Issuer may create and issue additional Notes (the "Additional Notes") under the terms of the Original Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture (and without need to execute any additional supplemental indenture).  The Additional Notes shall be issued as part of the existing series of Notes issued pursuant to this First Supplemental Indenture and shall have terms identical in all material respects (except for the initial interest accrual date, the initial Interest Payment Date, and the issue price) to any Outstanding Notes and shall be treated together with any Outstanding Notes as a single issue of Notes under the Original Indenture and this First Supplemental Indenture.  Any Additional Notes issued hereunder shall rank equally and ratably with the Notes originally issued pursuant to this First Supplemental Indenture, shall have the same CUSIP number and shall trade interchangeably with such Notes and shall otherwise constitute Notes for all other purposes hereof.  Any Additional Notes may be issued pursuant to authorization provided by one or more Board Resolutions.  No Additional Notes shall be issued at any time that there is an Event of Default under the Original Indenture with respect to the Notes that has occurred and is continuing.
Section 1.10.
Issuance of Additional Notes. 
3
In addition to notes, the Issuer may, from time to time, issue other series of debt securities under the Original Indenture consisting of debentures, notes or other unsecured, unsubordinated evidences of indebtedness, but such other series will be separate from and independent of the notes.  The Original Indenture does not limit the amount of debt securities or any other debt (whether secured or unsecured) which the Issuer may incur.
Section 1.11.  Issuance of Additional Debt Securities. 
.  Pursuant and subject to the Original Indenture, the Issuer hereby appoints The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), to act on behalf of the Holders of the Notes.  By execution, acknowledgment and delivery of this First Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee hereby accepts appointment as trustee with respect to the Notes, and agrees to perform the duties and obligations of the Trustee with respect to the Notes upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Original Indenture and in this First Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.1.  Appointment of Trustee; Acceptance by Trustee
.  Any rights, powers, duties and obligations by any provisions of the Original Indenture conferred or imposed upon the Trustee shall, insofar as permitted by law, be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Trustee with respect to the Notes.
Section 2.2.  Rights, Powers, Duties and Obligations of the Trustee
  The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., in its capacity as Trustee, shall be afforded all of the rights, powers, immunities and indemnities of the Trustee as set forth in the Original Indenture as if such rights, powers, immunities and indemnities were specifically set forth herein.
Section 2.3.  Rights in Indenture Applicable to Trustee.
Section 3.1.           Change of Control Offer.
(a)         If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein.
Change of Control Offer
(b)         In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes of this series repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Issuer shall mail a notice to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "").  The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
4
purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
(c)         In order to accept the Change of Control Offer, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, this Security together with the form entitled "Election Form" (which form is annexed hereto) duly completed, or a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange, or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth:
(i)            the name of the Holder of the Note;
(ii)           the principal amount of the Note;
(iii)          the principal amount of the Note to be repurchased;
(iv)          the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Note;
(v)           a statement that the Holder is accepting the Change of Control Offer; and
(vi)          a guarantee that the Note, together with the form entitled "Election Form" duly completed, will be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
(d)           Any exercise by a Holder of its election to accept the Change of Control Offer shall be irrevocable. The Change of Control Offer may be accepted for less than the entire principal amount of the Notes, but in that event the principal amount of the Notes remaining outstanding after repurchase must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
(e)           On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful:
(i)            accept for payment all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii)           deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered; and
(iii)          deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of this series properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series or portions of such Notes being repurchased.
(f)          The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and the third party purchases all Notes of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.  In addition, the Issuer shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Original Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
(g)         The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations
Exchange Act
5
thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
  For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities of this series, the following terms are applicable:
Section 3.2  Additional Definitions.
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuer's Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Issuer's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more Persons (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Issuer's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Securities of this series were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 "" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities of this series or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer (as certified by a resolution of the Issuer's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
6
"" means the rating on the Securities of this series is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Securities of this series are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Issuer's intention to effect a Change of Control; that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Issuer's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the Rating Event).
Rating Event
provided, however,
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
Pursuant to Sections 3.01(10), 15.01 and 15.02 of the Original Indenture, provision is hereby made for both (i) defeasance of the Notes under Section 15.03 of the Original Indenture and (ii) covenant defeasance of the Notes under Section 15.04, in each case, upon the terms and conditions contained in Article Fifteen of the Original Indenture.  For purposes of such defeasance or covenant defeasance, the term "Government Obligations" shall not include obligations referred to in the definition of such term in the Original Indenture which are not obligations of the United States or a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or an instrumentality thereof.
Section 4.1.           Defeasance Applicable to Notes. 
             The provisions of Section 5.01(2) of the Original Indenture shall not be applicable to the Notes.  As contemplated under Section 3.01 and Section 5.01(9) of the Original Indenture, the following events, in addition to the events described in clauses 5.01(1) and 5.01(3) to (8) of the Original Indenture, shall be Events of Default with respect to the Notes:
Section 5.1.
Events of Default.
(i)            default in the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Notes when due at its maturity (including a failure to make a payment to purchase Notes tendered pursuant to a Change of Control Offer in respect of the Notes).
7
Except as provided below, Section 11.02 of the Original Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes.  After the Issuer's obligation to purchase the Notes arises under Article Three of this First Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall not, without the consent of each of the Holders of the then Outstanding Notes, amend, change or modify in any material respect the Issuer's obligation to make and consummate a Change of Control Offer in the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event or, after such Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred, modify any of the provisions or definitions with respect thereto.
Section 6.1.           Modification and Amendment with Consent of Holders of the Notes. 
MISCELLANEOUS
Except as expressly modified or amended hereby, the Original Indenture continues in full force and effect and is in all respects confirmed, ratified and preserved.  This First Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part of the Original Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Section 7.1.           Effect of Supplemental Indenture. 
.  Each and every term and condition contained in this First Supplemental Indenture that modifies, amends or supplements the terms and conditions of the Original Indenture shall apply only to the Notes created hereby and not to any existing or future series of Securities established under the Original Indenture.
Section 7.2.           Application of First Supplemental Indenture
.  Nothing contained in this First Supplemental Indenture shall be construed to confer upon any person other than a Holder of the Notes, the Issuer, the Trustee and the calculation agent any right or interest to avail itself, himself or herself as the case may be, of any benefit under any provision of the Original Indenture or this First Supplemental Indenture.
Section 7.3.           Benefits of First Supplemental Indenture
.  This First Supplemental Indenture shall be effective as of the date first above written and upon the execution and delivery hereof by each of the parties hereto.
Section 7.4.           Effective Date
.  This First Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Section 7.5.           Governing Law
.  This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 7.6.           Counterparts
.  The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 7.7.           Effect of Headings
In case any provision in this First Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 7.8.           Separability Clause. 
.  The Issuer shall be deemed to have satisfied all of its obligations under this First Supplemental Indenture upon compliance with the provisions of Section 15.03 or Section 15.04, as applicable of the Original Indenture relating to defeasance of the Notes, to the extent set forth in Sections 15.01 and 15.02.
Section 7.9.           Satisfaction and Discharge
8
First Supplementalcorporate
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties hereto have caused this
Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective
seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., WHICH WAS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO)
as Trustee
 
 
9
EXHIBIT A
THIS NOTE IS A SECURITY IN GLOBAL FORM ("GLOBAL SECURITY") WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION 2.03 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITORY") OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, WHICH MAY BE TREATED BY THE ISSUER, THE TRUSTEE AND ANY AGENT THEREOF AS OWNER AND HOLDER OF THIS NOTE FOR ALL PURPOSES.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
UNLESS AND UNTIL THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC TO A NOMINEE THEREOF OR BY A NOMINEE THEREOF TO DTC OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR OF DTC OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR.
 
year,
Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor under the Original Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or its registered assigns, the principal sum of Three Hundred Million Dollars on July 1, 2017 (the "Maturity Date"), and to pay interest thereon from June 28, 2007 (or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for) in U.S. dollars semi-annually in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each
each, an "Interest Payment Date", commencing on January 1, 2008, and on the Maturity Date, at the rate of 6.30% per annum, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for.
A-1
The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date will be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the "Record Date" for such payment, which will be December 15 and June 15 (regardless of whether such day is a Business Day (as defined below)).  Any interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such record date, and shall be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest (which shall be not less than five Business Days (as defined below) prior to the date of the payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the Holders of the Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date. Interest on this Note will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
New
The principal of this Note payable on the Maturity Date will be paid against presentation and surrender of this Note at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York.  The Issuer hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in the City of
York as the office to be maintained by it where Notes may be presented for payment, registration of transfer, or exchange and where notices or demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Notes or the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof may be served.
Interest payable on this Note on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date, as the case may be, will be the amount of interest accrued from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or from and including June 28, 2007 in the case of the initial Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), the required payment of interest or principal or both, as the case may be, will be made on the next Business Day with the same force and effect as if it were made on the date such payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  "Business Day" means any calendar day, that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
debts
Payments of principal and interest
in respect of this Note will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private
.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof.  Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
obligatory
This Note shall not be entitled to the benefits of the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof or be valid or become
for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under such Indenture.
A-2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its authorized officers.
 
 
 
series
This is one of the Securities of the
designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., WHICH WAS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO)
as Trustee
 
This security is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness of the Issuer (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture dated as of June 29, 1998 (hereinafter called the "Original Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by the Issuer to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as Trustee (hereinafter called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Original Indenture with respect to the series of Securities of which this Note is a part), and a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 28, 2007, between the Issuer and the Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture;" the Original Indenture as modified and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture is herein called the "Indenture") to which the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties, and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Issuer, and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), and may otherwise vary as provided in the Original Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto.  This security is one of a series designated as the 6.30% Senior Notes due 2017 of the Issuer, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000.
In case an Event of Default with respect to this security shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal hereof together with accrued interest to the date of declaration, if any, may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect, and subject to the conditions provided in the Original Indenture.
Except as otherwise may be specified herein or in the First Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem to Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the "Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount plus accrued an unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
The Issuer will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.  If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depository shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is then permitted by the rules of the Depository for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
provided
provided,
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its option to redeem the Securities of this series, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes of this series repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to Holders of the Notes of this series describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "").  The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
In order to accept the Change of Control Offer, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, this Security together with the form entitled "Election Form" (which form is annexed hereto) duly completed, or a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange, or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth:
(i)            the name of the Holder of the Note;
(ii)           the principal amount of the Note;
(iii)          the principal amount of the Note to be repurchased;
(iv)          the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Note;
(v)           a statement that the Holder is accepting the Change of Control Offer; and
(vi)          a guarantee that the Note, together with the form entitled "Election Form" duly completed, will be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Any exercise by a Holder of its election to accept the Change of Control Offer shall be irrevocable. The Change of Control Offer may be accepted for less than the entire principal amount of the Notes, but in that event the principal amount of the Notes remaining outstanding after repurchase must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful (1) accept for payment all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered, and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of this series properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series or portions of such Securities being repurchased.
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times
and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and the third party purchases all Notes of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.  In addition, the Issuer shall not repurchase any Securities of this series if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Original Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes of this series, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities of this series by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
The following terms have the meanings given to them in this Note:
"" shall mean, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuer's Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Issuer's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more Persons (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" shall mean the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding
Comparable Treasury Price
the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Issuer's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 "" shall mean a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for the Notes.
Depository
  shall mean an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
"Independent Investment Banker
"
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer (as certified by a resolution of the Issuer's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for, Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Issuer's intention to effect a Change of Control; that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Issuer's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the Rating Event).
Rating Event
provided, however,
"" shall mean, with respect to any redemption of Notes, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Original Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
"" shall mean (i) Banc of America Securities LLC and its successors, that if Banc of America Securities LLC  or any such successor shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other three Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided,
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" shall mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to the Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due at the related Redemption Date but before such redemption; provided, however, that if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, with respect to the Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Issuer on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
The Original Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of all series to be affected (voting as one class), evidenced as provided in the Original Indenture, to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Original Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series; provided, however,
that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Security so affected, (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or installment of interest, if any, on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the interest thereon or any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or change the Stated Maturity of or reduce the amount of any payment to be made with respect to any Coupon, or change the Currency or Currencies in which the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on such Security is denominated or payable, or change the place where any such amount is payable, or reduce the amount of the principal of a Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Original Indenture, or adversely affect the right of repayment or repurchase, if any, at the option of the Holder, or reduce the amount of, or postpone the date fixed for, any payment under any sinking fund or analogous provisions for any Security, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or limit the obligation of the Issuer to maintain a paying agency outside the United States for payment on Bearer Securities as provided in Section 12.03 of the Original Indenture, or (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or (3) modify any of the provisions of Sections 11.02, 5.13 or 12.09 of the Original Indenture, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Original Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of each series affected thereby.
outstanding
It is also provided in the Original Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount
of the Securities of such series (or, in the case of certain defaults or Events of Default, all series of Securities) may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series (or all of the Securities, as the case may be) waive any such past default or Event of Default and its consequences, prior to any declaration accelerating the maturity of such Securities, or, subject to certain conditions, may rescind a declaration of acceleration and its consequences with respect to such Securities. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security (unless revoked as provided in the Original Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of the security and any securities that may be issued in exchange or substitution herefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation thereof is made upon this security or such other securities.
No reference herein to the Original Indenture and no provision of this security or of the Original Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security in the manner, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
Securities
This Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. 
may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of securities of this series of other authorized denominations at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan,  The City of New York, in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, but without the payment of any service charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of Securities at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, one or more new Securities of the same series of authorized denominations in an equal aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
security
The Issuer, the Trustee or any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this security is registered as the absolute owner of this security (whether or not this
shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
each
The Original Indenture and
Security shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such state, except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.
Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security.
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount in principal amount that you elect to have purchased: $                                           
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

EXHIBIT 4.2
THIS NOTE IS A SECURITY IN GLOBAL FORM ("GLOBAL SECURITY") WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION 2.03 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITORY") OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, WHICH MAY BE TREATED BY THE ISSUER, THE TRUSTEE AND ANY AGENT THEREOF AS OWNER AND HOLDER OF THIS NOTE FOR ALL PURPOSES.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
UNLESS AND UNTIL THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC TO A NOMINEE THEREOF OR BY A NOMINEE THEREOF TO DTC OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR OF DTC OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR.
year,
Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor under the Original Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or its registered assigns, the principal sum of Three Hundred Million Dollars on July 1, 2017 (the "Maturity Date"), and to pay interest thereon from June 28, 2007 (or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for) in U.S. dollars semi-annually in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each
each, an "Interest Payment Date", commencing on January 1, 2008, and on the Maturity Date, at the rate of 6.30% per annum, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for.
A-1
The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date will be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the "Record Date" for such payment, which will be December 15 and June 15 (regardless of whether such day is a Business Day (as defined below)).  Any interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such record date, and shall be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest (which shall be not less than five Business Days (as defined below) prior to the date of the payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the Holders of the Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date. Interest on this Note will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
New
The principal of this Note payable on the Maturity Date will be paid against presentation and surrender of this Note at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York.  The Issuer hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in the City of
York as the office to be maintained by it where Notes may be presented for payment, registration of transfer, or exchange and where notices or demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Notes or the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof may be served.
Interest payable on this Note on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date, as the case may be, will be the amount of interest accrued from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or from and including June 28, 2007 in the case of the initial Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), the required payment of interest or principal or both, as the case may be, will be made on the next Business Day with the same force and effect as if it were made on the date such payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  "Business Day" means any calendar day, that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
debts
Payments of principal and interest
in respect of this Note will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private
.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof.  Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
obligatory
This Note shall not be entitled to the benefits of the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof or be valid or become
for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under such Indenture.
A-2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its authorized officers.
Dated as of:  June 28, 2007
Attest:
 
series
This is one of the Securities of the
designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., WHICH WAS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO)
as Trustee
A-1
This security is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness of the Issuer (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture dated as of June 29, 1998 (hereinafter called the "Original Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by the Issuer to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as Trustee (hereinafter called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Original Indenture with respect to the series of Securities of which this Note is a part), and a First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 28, 2007, between the Issuer and the Trustee (the "First Supplemental Indenture;" the Original Indenture as modified and supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture is herein called the "Indenture") to which the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties, and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Issuer, and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), and may otherwise vary as provided in the Original Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto.  This security is one of a series designated as the 6.30% Senior Notes due 2017 of the Issuer, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000.
In case an Event of Default with respect to this security shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal hereof together with accrued interest to the date of declaration, if any, may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect, and subject to the conditions provided in the Original Indenture.
Except as otherwise may be specified herein or in the First Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem to Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the "Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount plus accrued an unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 25 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
The Issuer will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.  If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to the First Supplemental Indenture, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depository shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is then permitted by the rules of the Depository for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
provided
provided,
A-2
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its option to redeem the Securities of this series, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes of this series repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to Holders of the Notes of this series describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "").  The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
In order to accept the Change of Control Offer, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, this Security together with the form entitled "Election Form" (which form is annexed hereto) duly completed, or a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange, or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth:
(vii)         the name of the Holder of the Note;
(viii)        the principal amount of the Note;
(ix)           the principal amount of the Note to be repurchased;
(x)            the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Note;
(xi)           a statement that the Holder is accepting the Change of Control Offer; and
(xii)          a guarantee that the Note, together with the form entitled "Election Form" duly completed, will be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Any exercise by a Holder of its election to accept the Change of Control Offer shall be irrevocable. The Change of Control Offer may be accepted for less than the entire principal amount of the Notes, but in that event the principal amount of the Notes remaining outstanding after repurchase must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful (1) accept for payment all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered, and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of this series properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series or portions of such Securities being repurchased.
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times
A-3
and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and the third party purchases all Notes of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.  In addition, the Issuer shall not repurchase any Securities of this series if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Original Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes of this series, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities of this series by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
The following terms have the meanings given to them in this Note:
"" shall mean, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuer's Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Issuer's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more Persons (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" shall mean the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding
Comparable Treasury Price
A-4
the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Issuer's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 "" shall mean a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for the Notes.
Depository
  shall mean an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
"Independent Investment Banker
"
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer (as certified by a resolution of the Issuer's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for, Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Issuer's intention to effect a Change of Control; that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Issuer's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the Rating Event).
Rating Event
provided, however,
"" shall mean, with respect to any redemption of Notes, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Original Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
A-5
"" shall mean (i) Banc of America Securities LLC and its successors, that if Banc of America Securities LLC  or any such successor shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other three Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided,
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" shall mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to the Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due at the related Redemption Date but before such redemption; provided, however, that if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, with respect to the Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Issuer on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
The Original Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of all series to be affected (voting as one class), evidenced as provided in the Original Indenture, to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Original Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series; provided, however,
A-6
that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Security so affected, (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or installment of interest, if any, on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the interest thereon or any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or change the Stated Maturity of or reduce the amount of any payment to be made with respect to any Coupon, or change the Currency or Currencies in which the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on such Security is denominated or payable, or change the place where any such amount is payable, or reduce the amount of the principal of a Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Original Indenture, or adversely affect the right of repayment or repurchase, if any, at the option of the Holder, or reduce the amount of, or postpone the date fixed for, any payment under any sinking fund or analogous provisions for any Security, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or limit the obligation of the Issuer to maintain a paying agency outside the United States for payment on Bearer Securities as provided in Section 12.03 of the Original Indenture, or (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or (3) modify any of the provisions of Sections 11.02, 5.13 or 12.09 of the Original Indenture, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Original Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of each series affected thereby.
outstanding
It is also provided in the Original Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount
of the Securities of such series (or, in the case of certain defaults or Events of Default, all series of Securities) may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series (or all of the Securities, as the case may be) waive any such past default or Event of Default and its consequences, prior to any declaration accelerating the maturity of such Securities, or, subject to certain conditions, may rescind a declaration of acceleration and its consequences with respect to such Securities. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security (unless revoked as provided in the Original Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of the security and any securities that may be issued in exchange or substitution herefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation thereof is made upon this security or such other securities.
No reference herein to the Original Indenture and no provision of this security or of the Original Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security in the manner, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
Securities
This Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. 
may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of securities of this series of other authorized denominations at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan,  The City of New York, in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, but without the payment of any service charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of Securities at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, one or more new Securities of the same series of authorized denominations in an equal aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
A-7
security
The Issuer, the Trustee or any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this security is registered as the absolute owner of this security (whether or not this
shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
each
The Original Indenture and
Security shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such state, except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.
Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security.
A-8
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the First Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the First Supplemental Indenture, state the amount in principal amount that you elect to have purchased: $                      
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
A-9

Exhibit 4.3
, dated as of June 28, 2007, between EQUIFAX INC., a Georgia corporation (the "Issuer") and THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. a corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (the "Trustee") under the Original Indenture (as hereinafter defined).
SECOND SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
(AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., WHICH WAS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO),
(b)   RECITALS
WHEREAS,
the Issuer executed and delivered its Indenture (the "Original Indenture"), dated as of June 29, 1998, to the Trustee to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes debt securities evidencing its unsecured indebtedness.
Original
WHEREAS,
the
Indenture provides that by means of a supplemental indenture, the Issuer may create one or more series of its debt securities and establish the form and terms and conditions thereof.
the Issuer desires to issue a series of senior debt securities under the Original Indenture, and has duly authorized the creation and issuance of such series of debt securities and the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture to modify the Original Indenture and provide certain additional provisions as hereinafter described;
WHEREAS,
the Issuer and the Trustee deem it advisable to enter into this Second Supplemental Indenture for the purposes of establishing the terms of such series of debt securities and providing for the rights, obligations and duties of the Trustee with respect to such debt securities;
WHEREAS,
all conditions and requirements of the Original Indenture necessary to make this Second Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto and the execution and delivery thereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
the Board of Directors of the Issuer, acting through authority delegated to certain of its executive officers, has approved the creation of the Notes and the form, terms and conditions thereof;
concurrently with the execution hereof, the Issuer has delivered an Officers' Certificate and has caused its counsel to deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel; and
WHEREAS,
WHEREAS,
the consent of Holders to the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture is not required, and all other actions required to be taken under the Original Indenture with respect to this Second Supplemental Indenture have been taken.
NOW, THEREFORE IT IS AGREED:
.  Pursuant to the terms hereof and Section 3.01 of the Original Indenture, the Issuer hereby creates a series of its debt securities which shall be known as the "7.00% Senior Notes due 2037" (the "Notes"), which Notes shall be deemed "Securities" for all purposes under the Original Indenture.
Section 1.1.  Designation of Series
.  The definitive form of the Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in attached hereto, which is incorporated herein and made part hereof.  The Notes shall bear interest, be payable and have such other terms as are stated in the form of Note and in the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Second Supplemental Indenture.  The Notes shall be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Section 1.2.  Form and Denomination of Notes
Exhibit A
.  Subject to Section 1.10 hereof, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes that may be issued under this Second Supplemental Indenture is initially limited to $250,000,000.  The Notes may, upon the execution and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture or from time to time thereafter, be executed by the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Notes upon the delivery of an Issuer Order.
Section 1.3.  Amount of Series
.  The Notes are unsecured and shall rank equally among themselves and with all of the Issuer's other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Section 1.4.  Rank
.  No sinking fund shall be provided with respect to the Notes.
Section 1.5.  No Sinking Fund
.  Except as otherwise may be specified in this Second Supplemental Indenture and in the Notes, Article Thirteen of the Original Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes.  Except as otherwise may be specified in this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the "Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of:
Section 1.6.  Optional Redemption
100% of the principal amount plus accrued an unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date; and
(iii)        
the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
(iv)         
The Issuer will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to this Section 1.6, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depository shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is then permitted by the
provided
rules of the Depositary for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
provided,
For all purposes of this Second Supplemental Indenture:
Section 1.7.  Definitions. 
(h)           Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings set forth in the Original Indenture;
(i)            a term defined anywhere in this Second Supplemental Indenture (including the exhibits hereto) has the same meaning throughout;
(j)            the singular includes the plural and vice versa;
(k)           headings are for convenience of reference only and do not affect interpretation;
(l)            the following terms have the meanings given to them in this Section 1.7(e):
"" shall mean, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" shall mean the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
 "" shall mean a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for the Notes.
Depository
shall mean an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
"Independent Investment Banker
"
"" shall mean, with respect to any redemption of Notes, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Original Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
"" shall mean (i) Banc of America Securities LLC and its successors, that if Banc of America Securities LLC or any such successor shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other three Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided,
Primary Treasury Dealer
2
"" shall mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to the Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due at the related Redemption Date but before such redemption; provided, however, that if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, with respect to the Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Issuer on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
.  The Notes shall not be convertible or exchangeable for other securities or property.
Section 1.8.  Notes Not Convertible or Exchangeable
. The Notes shall be issued as Registered Securities in permanent global form, without coupons.  The initial Depositary for the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
Section 1.9.  Issuance of Notes; Selection of Depository
  From time to time subsequent to the date hereof, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, the Issuer may create and issue additional Notes (the "Additional Notes") under the terms of the Original Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture (and without need to execute any additional supplemental indenture).  The Additional Notes shall be issued as part of the existing series of Notes issued pursuant to this Second Supplemental Indenture and shall have terms identical in all material respects (except for the initial interest accrual date, the initial Interest Payment Date, and the issue price) to any Outstanding Notes and shall be treated together with any Outstanding Notes as a single issue of Notes under the Original Indenture and this Second Supplemental Indenture.  Any Additional Notes issued hereunder shall rank equally and ratably with the Notes originally issued pursuant to this Second Supplemental Indenture, shall have the same CUSIP number and shall trade interchangeably with such Notes and shall otherwise constitute Notes for all other purposes hereof.  Any Additional Notes may be issued pursuant to authorization provided by one
Section 1.10.
Issuance of Additional Notes. 
3
or more Board Resolutions.  No Additional Notes shall be issued at any time that there is an Event of Default under the Original Indenture with respect to the Notes that has occurred and is continuing.
In addition to notes, the Issuer may, from time to time, issue other series of debt securities under the Original Indenture consisting of debentures, notes or other unsecured, unsubordinated evidences of indebtedness, but such other series will be separate from and independent of the notes.  The Original Indenture does not limit the amount of debt securities or any other debt (whether secured or unsecured) which the Issuer may incur.
Section 1.11.  Issuance of Additional Debt Securities. 
.  Pursuant and subject to the Original Indenture, the Issuer hereby appoints The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), to act on behalf of the Holders of the Notes.  By execution, acknowledgment and delivery of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee hereby accepts appointment as trustee with respect to the Notes, and agrees to perform the duties and obligations of the Trustee with respect to the Notes upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Original Indenture and in this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.1.  Appointment of Trustee; Acceptance by Trustee
.  Any rights, powers, duties and obligations by any provisions of the Original Indenture conferred or imposed upon the Trustee shall, insofar as permitted by law, be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Trustee with respect to the Notes.
Section 2.2.  Rights, Powers, Duties and Obligations of the Trustee
  The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., in its capacity as Trustee, shall be afforded all of the rights, powers, immunities and indemnities of the Trustee as set forth in the Original Indenture as if such rights, powers, immunities and indemnities were specifically set forth herein.
Section 2.3.  Rights in Indenture Applicable to Trustee.
Section 3.1.  Change of Control Offer.
(m)        If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein.
Change of Control Offer
(n)         In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes of this series repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Issuer shall mail a notice to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and
Change of Control Payment
4
no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "").  The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Payment Date
(o)         In order to accept the Change of Control Offer, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, this Security together with the form entitled "Election Form" (which form is annexed hereto) duly completed, or a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange, or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth:
(i)            the name of the Holder of the Note;
(ii)           the principal amount of the Note;
(iii)          the principal amount of the Note to be repurchased;
(iv)          the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Note;
(v)           a statement that the Holder is accepting the Change of Control Offer; and
(vi)          a guarantee that the Note, together with the form entitled "Election Form" duly completed, will be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
(p)           Any exercise by a Holder of its election to accept the Change of Control Offer shall be irrevocable. The Change of Control Offer may be accepted for less than the entire principal amount of the Notes, but in that event the principal amount of the Notes remaining outstanding after repurchase must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
(q)           On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful:
(i)            accept for payment all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
(ii)           deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered; and
(iii)          deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of this series properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series or portions of such Notes being repurchased.
(r)          The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and the third party purchases all Notes of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.  In addition, the Issuer shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Original Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
5
(s)         The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
  For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities of this series, the following terms are applicable:
Section 3.2  Additional Definitions.
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuer's Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Issuer's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more Persons (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Issuer's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Securities of this series were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 "" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Securities of this series or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1I(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer
Rating Agencies
6
(as certified by a resolution of the Issuer's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
"" means the rating on the Securities of this series is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Securities of this series are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Issuer's intention to effect a Change of Control; that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Issuer's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the Rating Event).
Rating Event
provided, however,
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
Pursuant to Sections 3.01(10), 15.01 and 15.02 of the Original Indenture, provision is hereby made for both (i) defeasance of the Notes under Section 15.03 of the Original Indenture and (ii) covenant defeasance of the Notes under Section 15.04, in each case, upon the terms and conditions contained in Article Fifteen of the Original Indenture.  For purposes of such defeasance or covenant defeasance, the term "Government Obligations" shall not include obligations referred to in the definition of such term in the Original Indenture which are not obligations of the United States or a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or an instrumentality thereof.
Section 4.1.  Defeasance Applicable to Notes. 
    The provisions of Section 5.01(2) of the Original Indenture shall not be applicable to the Notes.  As contemplated under Section 3.01 and Section 5.01(9) of the Original Indenture, the following events, in addition to the events described in clauses 5.01(1) and 5.01(3) to (8) of the Original Indenture, shall be Events of Default with respect to the Notes:
Section 5.1.
Events of Default.
(i)            default in the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Notes when due at its maturity (including a failure to make a payment to purchase Notes tendered pursuant to a Change of Control Offer in respect of the Notes).
7
Except as provided below, Section 11.02 of the Original Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes.  After the Issuer's obligation to purchase the Notes arises under Article Three of this Second Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall not, without the consent of each of the Holders of the then Outstanding Notes, amend, change or modify in any material respect the Issuer's obligation to make and consummate a Change of Control Offer in the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event or, after such Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred, modify any of the provisions or definitions with respect thereto.
Section 6.1.  Modification and Amendment with Consent of Holders of the Notes. 
MISCELLANEOUS
Except as expressly modified or amended hereby, the Original Indenture continues in full force and effect and is in all respects confirmed, ratified and preserved.  This Second Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part of the Original Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Section 7.1.  Effect of Supplemental Indenture. 
.  Each and every term and condition contained in this Second Supplemental Indenture that modifies, amends or supplements the terms and conditions of the Original Indenture shall apply only to the Notes created hereby and not to any existing or future series of Securities established under the Original Indenture.
Section 7.2.  Application of Second Supplemental Indenture
.  Nothing contained in this Second Supplemental Indenture shall be construed to confer upon any person other than a Holder of the Notes, the Issuer, the Trustee and the calculation agent any right or interest to avail itself, himself or herself as the case may be, of any benefit under any provision of the Original Indenture or this Second Supplemental Indenture.
Section 7.3.  Benefits of Second Supplemental Indenture
.  This Second Supplemental Indenture shall be effective as of the date first above written and upon the execution and delivery hereof by each of the parties hereto.
Section 7.4.  Effective Date
.  This Second Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Section 7.5.  Governing Law
.  This Second Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 7.6.  Counterparts
.  The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 7.7.  Effect of Headings
In case any provision in this Second Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 7.8.  Separability Clause. 
.  The Issuer shall be deemed to have satisfied all of its obligations under this Second Supplemental Indenture upon compliance with the provisions of
Section 7.9.  Satisfaction and Discharge
8
Section 15.03 or Section 15.04, as applicable of the Original Indenture relating to defeasance of the Notes, to the extent set forth in Sections 15.01 and 15.02.
9
Second Supplementalcorporate
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties hereto have caused this
Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective
seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 
 
10
EXHIBIT A
THIS NOTE IS A SECURITY IN GLOBAL FORM ("GLOBAL SECURITY") WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION 2.03 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITORY") OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, WHICH MAY BE TREATED BY THE ISSUER, THE TRUSTEE AND ANY AGENT THEREOF AS OWNER AND HOLDER OF THIS NOTE FOR ALL PURPOSES.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
UNLESS AND UNTIL THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC TO A NOMINEE THEREOF OR BY A NOMINEE THEREOF TO DTC OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR OF DTC OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR.
NO. 1
 
year,
Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor under the Original Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or its registered assigns, the principal sum of Two Hundred and Fifty Million Dollars on July 1, 2037 (the "Maturity Date"), and to pay interest thereon from June 28, 2007 (or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for) in U.S. dollars semi-annually in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each
each, an "Interest Payment Date", commencing on January 1, 2008, and on the Maturity Date, at the rate of 7.00% per annum, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for.
1
The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date will be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the "Record Date" for such payment, which will be December 15 and June 15 (regardless of whether such day is a Business Day (as defined below)).  Any interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such record date, and shall be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest (which shall be not less than five Business Days (as defined below) prior to the date of the payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the Holders of the Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date. Interest on this Note will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
New
The principal of this Note payable on the Maturity Date will be paid against presentation and surrender of this Note at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York.  The Issuer hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in the City of
York as the office to be maintained by it where Notes may be presented for payment, registration of transfer, or exchange and where notices or demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Notes or the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof may be served.
Interest payable on this Note on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date, as the case may be, will be the amount of interest accrued from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or from and including June 28, 2007 in the case of the initial Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), the required payment of interest or principal or both, as the case may be, will be made on the next Business Day with the same force and effect as if it were made on the date such payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  "Business Day" means any calendar day, that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
debts
Payments of principal and interest
in respect of this Note will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private
.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof.  Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
This Note shall not be entitled to the benefits of the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under such Indenture.
2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its authorized officers.
Dated as of:  June 28, 2007
 
 
Attest:
 
 
series
This is one of the Securities of the
designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This security is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness of the Issuer (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture dated as of June 29, 1998 (hereinafter called the "Original Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by the Issuer to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as Trustee (hereinafter called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Original Indenture with respect to the series of Securities of which this Note is a part), and a Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 28, 2007, between the Issuer and the Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture;" the Original Indenture as modified and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture is herein called the "Indenture") to which the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties, and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Issuer, and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), and may otherwise vary as provided in the Original Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto.  This security is one of a series designated as the 7.00% Senior Notes due 2037 of the Issuer, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000.
In case an Event of Default with respect to this security shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal hereof together with accrued interest to the date of declaration, if any, may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect, and subject to the conditions provided in the Original Indenture.
Except as otherwise may be specified herein or in the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem to Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the "Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount plus accrued an unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
The Issuer will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.  If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depository shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is then permitted by the rules of the Depository for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
provided
provided,
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its option to redeem the Securities of this series, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes of this series repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to Holders of the Notes of this series describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "").  The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
In order to accept the Change of Control Offer, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, this Security together with the form entitled "Election Form" (which form is annexed hereto) duly completed, or a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange, or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth:
(ii)           the name of the Holder of the Note;
(iii)          the principal amount of the Note;
(iv)          the principal amount of the Note to be repurchased;
(v)           the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Note;
(vi)          a statement that the Holder is accepting the Change of Control Offer; and
(vii)         a guarantee that the Note, together with the form entitled "Election Form" duly completed, will be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Any exercise by a Holder of its election to accept the Change of Control Offer shall be irrevocable. The Change of Control Offer may be accepted for less than the entire principal amount of the Notes, but in that event the principal amount of the Notes remaining outstanding after repurchase must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful (1) accept for payment all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered, and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of this series properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series or portions of such Securities being repurchased.
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times
and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and the third party purchases all Notes of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.  In addition, the Issuer shall not repurchase any Securities of this series if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Original Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes of this series, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities of this series by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
The following terms have the meanings given to them in this Note:
"" shall mean, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuer's Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Issuer's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more Persons (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" shall mean the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding
Comparable Treasury Price
the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Issuer's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 "" shall mean a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for the Notes.
Depository
  shall mean an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
"Independent Investment Banker
"
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1I(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer (as certified by a resolution of the Issuer's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for, Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Issuer's intention to effect a Change of Control; that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Issuer's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the Rating Event).
Rating Event
provided, however,
"" shall mean, with respect to any redemption of Notes, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Original Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
"" shall mean (i) Banc of America Securities LLC and its successors, that if Banc of America Securities LLC  or any such successor shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other three Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided,
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" shall mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to the Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due at the related Redemption Date but before such redemption; provided, however, that if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, with respect to the Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Issuer on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
The Original Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of all series to be affected (voting as one class), evidenced as provided in the Original Indenture, to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Original Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series; provided, however,
that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Security so affected, (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or installment of interest, if any, on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the interest thereon or any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or change the Stated Maturity of or reduce the amount of any payment to be made with respect to any Coupon, or change the Currency or Currencies in which the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on such Security is denominated or payable, or change the place where any such amount is payable, or reduce the amount of the principal of a Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Original Indenture, or adversely affect the right of repayment or repurchase, if any, at the option of the Holder, or reduce the amount of, or postpone the date fixed for, any payment under any sinking fund or analogous provisions for any Security, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or limit the obligation of the Issuer to maintain a paying agency outside the United States for payment on Bearer Securities as provided in Section 12.03 of the Original Indenture, or (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or (3) modify any of the provisions of Sections 11.02, 5.13 or 12.09 of the Original Indenture, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Original Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of each series affected thereby.
outstanding
It is also provided in the Original Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount
of the Securities of such series (or, in the case of certain defaults or Events of Default, all series of Securities) may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series (or all of the Securities, as the case may be) waive any such past default or Event of Default and its consequences, prior to any declaration accelerating the maturity of such Securities, or, subject to certain conditions, may rescind a declaration of acceleration and its consequences with respect to such Securities. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security (unless revoked as provided in the Original Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of the security and any securities that may be issued in exchange or substitution herefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation thereof is made upon this security or such other securities.
No reference herein to the Original Indenture and no provision of this security or of the Original Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security in the manner, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
Securities
This Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. 
may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of securities of this series of other authorized denominations at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, but without the payment of any service charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of Securities at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, one or more new Securities of the same series of authorized denominations in an equal aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
security
The Issuer, the Trustee or any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this security is registered as the absolute owner of this security (whether or not this
shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
each
The Original Indenture and
Security shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such state, except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.
Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security.
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the Second Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the Second Supplemental Indenture, state the amount in principal amount that you elect to have purchased: $                            
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

Exhibit 4.4
THIS NOTE IS A SECURITY IN GLOBAL FORM ("GLOBAL SECURITY") WITHIN THE MEANING OF SECTION 2.03 OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE "DEPOSITORY") OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, WHICH MAY BE TREATED BY THE ISSUER, THE TRUSTEE AND ANY AGENT THEREOF AS OWNER AND HOLDER OF THIS NOTE FOR ALL PURPOSES.
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
UNLESS AND UNTIL THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC TO A NOMINEE THEREOF OR BY A NOMINEE THEREOF TO DTC OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR OF DTC OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR.
 
year,
Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the "Issuer," which term includes any successor under the Original Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or its registered assigns, the principal sum of Two Hundred and Fifty Million Dollars on July 1, 2037 (the "Maturity Date"), and to pay interest thereon from June 28, 2007 (or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for) in U.S. dollars semi-annually in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each
each, an "Interest Payment Date", commencing on January 1, 2008, and on the Maturity Date, at the rate of 7.00% per annum, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for.
1
The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date will be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the "Record Date" for such payment, which will be December 15 and June 15 (regardless of whether such day is a Business Day (as defined below)).  Any interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such record date, and shall be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest (which shall be not less than five Business Days (as defined below) prior to the date of the payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the Holders of the Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date. Interest on this Note will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
New
The principal of this Note payable on the Maturity Date will be paid against presentation and surrender of this Note at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York.  The Issuer hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in the City of
York as the office to be maintained by it where Notes may be presented for payment, registration of transfer, or exchange and where notices or demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Notes or the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof may be served.
Interest payable on this Note on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date, as the case may be, will be the amount of interest accrued from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or from and including June 28, 2007 in the case of the initial Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), the required payment of interest or principal or both, as the case may be, will be made on the next Business Day with the same force and effect as if it were made on the date such payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  "Business Day" means any calendar day, that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
debts
Payments of principal and interest
in respect of this Note will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private
.
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof.  Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
obligatory
This Note shall not be entitled to the benefits of the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof or be valid or become
for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under such Indenture.
2
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its authorized officers.
 
series
This is one of the Securities of the
designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
1
This security is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness of the Issuer (hereinafter called the "Securities") of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture dated as of June 29, 1998 (hereinafter called the "Original Indenture"), duly executed and delivered by the Issuer to The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as Trustee (hereinafter called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Original Indenture with respect to the series of Securities of which this Note is a part), and a Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 28, 2007, between the Issuer and the Trustee (the "Second Supplemental Indenture;" the Original Indenture as modified and supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture is herein called the "Indenture") to which the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties, and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Issuer, and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), and may otherwise vary as provided in the Original Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto.  This security is one of a series designated as the 7.00% Senior Notes due 2037 of the Issuer, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000.
In case an Event of Default with respect to this security shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal hereof together with accrued interest to the date of declaration, if any, may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect, and subject to the conditions provided in the Original Indenture.
Except as otherwise may be specified herein or in the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem to Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the "Optional Redemption Price") equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount plus accrued an unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate plus 30 basis points, plus accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
The Issuer will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.  If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depository shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is then permitted by the rules of the Depository for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
provided
provided,
2
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its option to redeem the Securities of this series, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer (the "") to each Holder of the Notes of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holder's Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes of this series repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Issuer's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to Holders of the Notes of this series describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the "").  The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Change of Control Offer
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
In order to accept the Change of Control Offer, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, this Security together with the form entitled "Election Form" (which form is annexed hereto) duly completed, or a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange, or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth:
(viii)        the name of the Holder of the Note;
(ix)           the principal amount of the Note;
(x)            the principal amount of the Note to be repurchased;
(xi)           the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Note;
(xii)          a statement that the Holder is accepting the Change of Control Offer; and
(xiii)         a guarantee that the Note, together with the form entitled "Election Form" duly completed, will be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
Any exercise by a Holder of its election to accept the Change of Control Offer shall be irrevocable. The Change of Control Offer may be accepted for less than the entire principal amount of the Notes, but in that event the principal amount of the Notes remaining outstanding after repurchase must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful (1) accept for payment all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered, and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of this series properly accepted together with an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series or portions of such Securities being repurchased.
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times
3
and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and the third party purchases all Notes of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.  In addition, the Issuer shall not repurchase any Securities of this series if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Original Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes of this series, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities of this series by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
The following terms have the meanings given to them in this Note:
"" shall mean, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
"" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuer's Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Issuer's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more Persons (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuer's Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuer's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
Change of Control
"" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
"" shall mean the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term ("") of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding
Comparable Treasury Price
4
the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than three such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
"" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Issuer's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuer's proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 "" shall mean a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for the Notes.
Depository
  shall mean an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
"Independent Investment Banker
"
"" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade Rating
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
"" means (1) each of Moody's and S&P; and (2) if either of Moody's or S&P ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuer's control, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer (as certified by a resolution of the Issuer's Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for, Moody's or S&P, or both of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
"" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Issuer's intention to effect a Change of Control; that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at the Issuer's or the Trustee's request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the Rating Event).
Rating Event
provided, however,
"" shall mean, with respect to any redemption of Notes, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Original Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
5
"" shall mean (i) Banc of America Securities LLC and its successors, that if Banc of America Securities LLC  or any such successor shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ""), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer and (ii) any other three Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Issuer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided,
Primary Treasury Dealer
"" shall mean, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
"" means, with respect to the Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due at the related Redemption Date but before such redemption; provided, however, that if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, with respect to the Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
"" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
"" shall mean, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated "H.15 (519)" or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities," for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Issuer on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
"" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
The Original Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of all series to be affected (voting as one class), evidenced as provided in the Original Indenture, to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Original Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series; provided, however,
6
that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Security so affected, (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or installment of interest, if any, on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the interest thereon or any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or change the Stated Maturity of or reduce the amount of any payment to be made with respect to any Coupon, or change the Currency or Currencies in which the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on such Security is denominated or payable, or change the place where any such amount is payable, or reduce the amount of the principal of a Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Original Indenture, or adversely affect the right of repayment or repurchase, if any, at the option of the Holder, or reduce the amount of, or postpone the date fixed for, any payment under any sinking fund or analogous provisions for any Security, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or limit the obligation of the Issuer to maintain a paying agency outside the United States for payment on Bearer Securities as provided in Section 12.03 of the Original Indenture, or (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or (3) modify any of the provisions of Sections 11.02, 5.13 or 12.09 of the Original Indenture, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Original Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of each series affected thereby.
outstanding
It is also provided in the Original Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount
of the Securities of such series (or, in the case of certain defaults or Events of Default, all series of Securities) may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series (or all of the Securities, as the case may be) waive any such past default or Event of Default and its consequences, prior to any declaration accelerating the maturity of such Securities, or, subject to certain conditions, may rescind a declaration of acceleration and its consequences with respect to such Securities. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security (unless revoked as provided in the Original Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of the security and any securities that may be issued in exchange or substitution herefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation thereof is made upon this security or such other securities.
No reference herein to the Original Indenture and no provision of this security or of the Original Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security in the manner, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
Securities
This Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. 
may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of securities of this series of other authorized denominations at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, but without the payment of any service charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of Securities at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, one or more new Securities of the same series of authorized denominations in an equal aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
7
security
The Issuer, the Trustee or any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this security is registered as the absolute owner of this security (whether or not this
shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
each
The Original Indenture and
Security shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such state, except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.
Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security.
8
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the Second Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the Second Supplemental Indenture, state the amount in principal amount that you elect to                                                            have                                                           purchased: $______________
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
9

Exhibit 5
Equifax Inc.
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the filing of the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the "Registration Statement") with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), on June 25, 2007.  This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act.
The Registration Statement relates to the proposed issuance and sale from time to time pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act of senior debt securities of the Company (the "Securities"). The Securities may be offered in separate series, in amounts, at prices, and on terms to be set forth in the prospectus and one or more supplements to the prospectus constituting a part of the Registration Statement.  Each series of Securities will be issued under an indenture for senior debt (as amended or supplemented from time to time, the "Indenture"), dated as of June 29, 1998, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Bank One Trust Company, National Association, which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as trustee (the "Trustee"), previously filed and incorporated into the Registration Statement by reference.
The Company proposes to issue and sell on the date hereof, pursuant to the Registration Statement, $300 million principal amount of 6.30% Senior Notes due 2017 (the "2017 Notes") and $250 million principal amount of 7.00% Senior Notes due 2037 (the "2037 Notes," and together with the 2017 Notes, the "Notes").  The terms of the Notes will be governed by the Indenture, together with a First Supplemental Indenture with regard to the 2017 Notes and a Second Supplemental Indenture with regard to the 2037 Notes, in each case dated the date hereof, between the Company and the Trustee.  The 2017 Notes and the 2037 Notes are to be sold pursuant to Underwriting Agreements dated June 25, 2007 and June 26, 2007, respectively, between the Company and Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as the representatives of the underwriters named therein.
As counsel to the Company, we have examined the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, the Bylaws of the Company, records of proceedings of the Board of Directors and the Debt Issuance Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company deemed
1
by us to be relevant to this opinion, the Registration Statement, the Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the forms of Notes, and the preliminary and final prospectus supplements and terms sheets of the Company dated June 25, 2007 with regard to the 2017 Notes and June 26, 2007 with regard to the 2037 Notes.  We also have examined such other relevant documents, and have made such other examinations of matters of law and of fact, as we have considered appropriate or advisable for purposes of this opinion. In our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as original documents and the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as certified, conformed, facsimile, electronic or photostatic copies.  As to questions of fact material to this opinion, we have relied upon the statements as to factual matters contained in the above-referenced documents and statements of officers of the Company, and we have made no independent investigation with regard thereto.
To the extent that the obligations of the Company under the Indenture may depend upon such matters, we have assumed for purposes of this opinion that: (i) the Trustee is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; (ii) the Trustee is duly qualified to engage in the activities contemplated by the Indenture; (iii) the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Trustee and constitutes the valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms; (iv) the Trustee is in compliance, with respect to any actions the Trustee may take under the Indenture, with all applicable laws and regulations; and (v) the Trustee has the requisite organizational and legal power and authority to perform its obligations under the Indenture.
  For purposes of this opinion, the term "Enforceability Exceptions" shall mean any (A) bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent transfer, moratorium and other similar laws now or hereafter in effect relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and (B) general principles of equity (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity), including the following concepts: (i) principles governing the availability of specific performance, injunctive relief or other traditional equitable remedies; (ii) principles affording traditional equitable defenses (e.g., waiver, laches and estoppel); (iii) good faith and fair dealing; (iv) reasonableness; (v) materiality of the breach; (vi) impracticability or impossibility of performance; (vii) the effect of obstruction or failure to perform or otherwise act in accordance with an agreement by any person other than the Company; and (viii) unconscionability.
Our opinion set forth below is limited to the laws of the State of New York as it relates to the enforceability of documents, agreements and instruments referred to herein.  We do not express any opinion herein concerning any other laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations.
This opinion is delivered to the Company solely for its use in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Registration Statement, the Indenture and the above-referenced Underwriting Agreements, may not be used, circulated, quoted or otherwise relied upon by any other person or for any other purpose, and may not be disclosed, quoted, filed with a governmental agency other than the Commission or otherwise referred to without our prior written consent. No opinion may be implied or inferred beyond the opinion expressly stated in
2
the immediately following paragraph hereof.  Our opinion expressed herein is as of the date hereof, and we hereby expressly disclaim any obligation to supplement this opinion for any changes that may occur after the date hereof with respect to any matters of fact or law addressed herein.
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, it is our opinion that upon execution and delivery of the above-referenced Supplemental Indentures and the due qualification thereof under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, the Indenture will be a valid and binding agreement of the Company, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions, and upon due execution of the Notes by the Company, due authentication thereof by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and issuance and delivery thereof against payment therefor as provided in the Underwriting Agreements, the Notes will be validly issued and will constitute legally binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture, subject to the Enforceability Exceptions.
We consent to the filing of this opinion letter as an exhibit to the Registration Statement and to the use of our name under the heading "Legal Matters" in the prospectus and prospectus supplements constituting a part thereof. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
 
3

Exhibit 99.1
- Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) has announced that it priced a $300 million registered public debt offering on June 25. The offering of investment-grade senior unsecured notes consisted of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.30% notes due 2017. The transaction is expected to close on June 28, 2007.
ATLANTA, June 25, 2007
The notes were assigned a Baa1 issuer rating by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. and Standard & Poor's assigned a BBB+ rating to the notes.
Equifax expects to use the net proceeds of the public offering to repay short-term debt, a substantial portion of which was incurred in connection with Equifax's acquisition of TALX Corporation.
Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Securities are Joint Bookrunners for the offering.
Information About the Offering
This offering is pursuant to a shelf registration statement filed on June 25, 2007. This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
A prospectus supplement relating to this offering will be filed with the SEC. When available, copies of the prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus may be obtained at no cost by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov, or alternatively by contacting Banc of America Securities LLC by telephone at 1-800-294-1322 or by e-mail at dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com, or Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC at 1-866-289-1262.
About Equifax (www.equifax.com)
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
Customers have trusted Equifax for over 100 years to deliver innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability. Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology,
1
marketing tools, and much more. We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. employs approximately 6,900 people in 14 countries through North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like, including statements concerning the expected use of the net proceeds of the offering and the expected closing date of the offering, may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Those events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions and other factors that materially impact the demand for and pricing of securities and the capital markets generally or that otherwise prevent us from completing the proposed public offering on the terms indicated, and certain other factors discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of Equifax's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
Contact Information:
David Rubinger Media Relations (404) 885-8555 david.rubinger@equifax.com
Jeff Dodge Investor Relations (404) 885-8300 jeff.dodge@equifax.com
2

Exhibit 99.2
- Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX)has announced that it priced a $250 million registered public debt offering on June 26. The offering of investment-grade senior unsecured notes consisted of $250 million aggregate principal amount of 7.00% notes due 2037. The transaction is expected to close on June 28, 2007.
ATLANTA, June 26, 2007
The notes were assigned a Baa1 issuer rating by Moody's Investors Services, Inc. and Standard & Poor's assigned a BBB+ rating to the notes.
Equifax expects to use the net proceeds from this offering and its previously announced sale of $300 million aggregate principal amount of 6.30% notes due 2017, which is expected to close on June 28, 2007, to repay short-term debt, a substantial portion of which was incurred in connection with Equifax's acquisition of TALX Corporation.
Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Securities are Joint Bookrunners for the offering.
Information About the Offering
This offering is pursuant to a shelf registration statement filed on June 25, 2007. This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
A prospectus supplement relating to this offering will be filed with the SEC. When available, copies of the prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus may be obtained at no cost by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov, or alternatively by contacting Banc of America Securities LLC by telephone at 1-800-294-1322 or by e-mail at dg.prospectus_distribution@bofasecurities.com, or Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC at 1-866-289-1262.
About Equifax (www.equifax.com)
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
Customers have trusted Equifax for over 100 years to deliver innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability. Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology,
1
marketing tools, and much more. We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. employs approximately 6,900 people in 14 countries through North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like, including statements concerning the expected use of the net proceeds of the offering and the expected closing date of the offering, may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Those events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions and other factors that materially impact the demand for and pricing of securities and the capital markets generally or that otherwise prevent us from completing the proposed public offering on the terms indicated, and certain other factors discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of Equifax's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
Contact Information:
David Rubinger Media Relations (404) 885-8555 david.rubinger@equifax.com
Jeff Dodge Investor Relations (404) 885-8300 jeff.dodge@equifax.com
2


