FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20070608094627.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 8, 2007, Equifax Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it had entered into a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan with a broker to facilitate the repurchase of up to $250 million in shares of Company common stock under the Company's previously announced share repurchase authorization.  A copy of the text of the Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information in this Item 7.01, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)  Exhibits
99.1         Press release of Equifax Inc. dated June 8, 2007.
2
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
 
NEWS RELEASE
Contact:
 
 Equifax Inc. (NYSE: ) today announced that it has entered into a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan with a broker to facilitate the repurchase of up to $250 million of its shares of common stock under its previously announced share repurchase authorization.
ATLANTA, June 8, 2007
EFX
Rule 10b5-1 allows a company to repurchase its shares at times when it might otherwise be prevented from doing so under insider trading laws or because of self-imposed trading blackout periods.  The shares to be repurchased under Equifax's 10b5-1 plan would be part of the share repurchase authorization approved by Equifax's Board of Directors in February 2007 to repurchase up to a total of $650 million of its common shares in addition to the then-remaining previous authorization of $132.6 million.
The 10b5-1 share purchase period will commence on Monday, June 25, 2007.  Purchases will be effected by a broker and will be based upon the guidelines and parameters of the 10b5-1 plan.  The aggregate amount of shares purchased pursuant to the plan will not exceed $250 million (excluding commissions, taxes and other charges and expenses).  There is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that will be repurchased under the share repurchase program, and Equifax may discontinue purchases at any time.
 
About Equifax (www.equifax.com)
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
Customers have trusted Equifax for over 100 years to deliver innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. employs approximately 6,900 people in 14 countries through North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like, including statements concerning the commencement of repurchases under the plan and the expected termination date of the plan, may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Those factors include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that other factors that materially impact share price and capital markets generally, consumer spending and consumer debt, changes in demand for Equifax's products and services, our ability to develop new products and services, pricing and other competitive pressures, risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data, risks associated with our ability to complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including federal or state responses to identity theft concerns, the outcome of pending litigation, the impact of tax audits by the IRS or other taxing authorities, and certain other factors discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of Equifax's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.


