FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20080211090656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02   Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of  Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Appointment of New Director.
 
On February 8, 2008, the Board of Directors of Equifax Inc. (the "Company") appointed Mark B. Templeton to fill a vacancy on the Board created by the retirement of A.W. Dahlberg in November of 2007.  Mr. Templeton, who is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of Citrix Systems, Inc., will serve a term as a Class III director that will expire at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders.  Mr. Templeton has been designated an independent director by the Board and has been appointed to serve on the Finance Committee of the Board.   There is no arrangement pursuant to which Mr. Templeton was elected as a director, and there are no related party transactions between Mr. Templeton and the Company that are reportable under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.  A copy of the Company's press release dated February 8, 2008 announcing Mr. Templeton's appointment to the Board is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On February 11, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing, among other matters disclosed, that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of its common stock in connection with a previously authorized share repurchase program.   This amount is in addition to the approximately $63.9 million unused authorization which was available at December 31, 2007 under the existing share repurchase program.  Repurchases under the program will be effected from time to time through open market and privately negotiated transactions subject to market conditions.  The program has no stated expiration date.  A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
 
The information provided in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 8.01.   Other Events.
 
As noted in item 7.01 of this Form 8-K, on February 11, 2008, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors has increased the stock repurchase program by an additional $250 million of its common stock, for a total remaining authorization of $313.9 million.  A copy of the February 8, 2008 press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Contact Information:
David Rubinger
Media Relations (404) 885-8555 david.rubinger@equifax.com
 
ATLANTA, GA, February 11, 2008 
Equifax Inc. (NYSE: ) today announced that Mark B. Templeton has been appointed to the company's board of directors effective February 8, 2008.  Mr. Templeton will serve for a term expiring at the 2010 annual meeting of shareholders and has been appointed to the Finance Committee of the Board.
EFX
 
Mr. Templeton, 55, is President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Citrix Systems, Inc., a global leader in application delivery infrastructure. Mr. Templeton has served as President of Citrix since January 1998 and as Chief Executive Officer from June 2001 to the present.  He also served as Chief Executive Officer from January 1999 to June 2000 and as Senior Executive Officer from July 2000 to May 2001.
 
Commenting on the addition of Mr. Templeton to the Equifax Board, Richard F. Smith, Equifax's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said: "We are extremely fortunate to have someone of Mark's accomplishments join our Board.  Citrix is one of the world's top technology companies and Mark's experience and insight will be an invaluable resource for our Board as Equifax continues to innovate and market new technology-based products."
 
"Equifax has been recognized as a technology innovator in its industry.  I am certainly excited at the opportunity to join its distinguished board of directors and to contribute to its future growth," said Templeton.
 
About Equifax Inc. (www.equifax.com)
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, employment and income verification and human resources business process outsourcing services, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
Customers have trusted Equifax for over 100 years to deliver innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection,
 
 
decisioning technology, marketing tools, HR/payroll services, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. employs approximately 7,000 people in 14 countries throughout North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
Contact Information:
 
ATLANTA, February 11, 2008
- Equifax Inc. (NYSE: ) today announced that the Equifax Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share, payable on March 14, 2008, to shareholders of record as of February 22, 2008. Equifax has paid cash dividends for 95 consecutive years.
EFX
 
Equifax also announced that the Board has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $250 million of the company's common stock. Since 2004, Equifax has repurchased more than 28 million shares at a cost of approximately $1.075 billion.
 
Stock repurchases under this program may be made through open-market and privately negotiated transactions at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate. The stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice.
 
"Equifax is strongly committed to driving growth and increasing shareholder value," said Rick Smith, Chairman and CEO. "The expansion of our share buyback program further demonstrates the Board's confidence in the future of Equifax."
 
The 2008 annual meeting of shareholders will be held on Friday, May 9, 2008, at 9:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) in the Walter C. Hill Auditorium at the High Museum of Art, Atlanta, Georgia.
 
 
About Equifax
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, employment and income verification and human resources business process outsourcing services, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
Customers have trusted Equifax for over 100 years to deliver innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, HR/payroll services, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. employs approximately 7,000 people in 14 countries throughout North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
www.equifax.com
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifax's future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Those factors include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment, changes in demand for Equifax's products and services, our ability to develop new products and services, pricing and other competitive pressures, our ability to achieve targeted cost efficiencies, risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data, risks associated with our ability to complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including federal or state responses to identity theft concerns, the outcome of pending litigation, the impact of tax audits by the IRS or other taxing authorities, and certain other factors discussed under the caption "Risk Factors" in the Management's Discussion and Analysis section of Equifax's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, in "Risk Factors" in TALX Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2006 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 


