FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20080721171623.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
FORM 8-K
 
 
Not Applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 21, 2008, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2008.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits
 
99.1                    Press release of Equifax Inc. dated July 21, 2008.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
                Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: July 21, 2008
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
NEWS RELEASE
Contact:
 
 
ATLANTA, July 21, 2008 
Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today announced financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2008.  The company reported r
evenue of $501.9 million, a 10 percent increase over the second quarter of 2007, and
operating income of $127.7 million, a 7 percent increase from the same period of 2007.  D
iluted earnings per share ("EPS") was $0.54 compared to $0.51 in the same period of the prior year.  On a non-GAAP basis, EPS, excluding the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense ("adjusted EPS"), was $0.64, up 12 percent from the same period of 2007.
 
"
Equifax's increasingly diversified business model positioned us well for the current environment as we delivered solid, broad-based performance.  W
e continue to invest for the future through new product innovation, international expansion, and enhancing our value-added services, including enabling technologies and predictive sciences.  At the same time, operating performance benefit
ed from implementing process improvement initiatives, the expertise of our outsourcing partners and managing our discretionary expenses,"
said Richard F. Smith, Equifax's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  "
In spite of the fact that the economy has weakened further since we last gave guidance, we remain confident in our original range and full year performance will likely be in the middle to lower half of that range
assuming economic conditions remain similar to what we experienced in the second quarter."
 
Second Quarter 2008 Highlights
 
                 
Double-digit revenue growth in our International and North America Commercial Solutions operating segments and results from TALX contributed to a 10 percent increase in revenue in the second quarter of 2008, when compared to the same period in 2007.
 
                 
Operating margin was 25.4 percent compared to 25.1 percent in the first quarter of 2008 and 26.4 percent in the second quarter of 2007.   On a non-GAAP basis, excluding the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, operating margin was 29.8 percent in the second quarter of 2008 compared to 29.6 percent in the same period of 2007.
 
                 
Net income was $70.8 million, a 1 percent increase from the second quarter of 2007.  Year-over-year net income growth was negatively impacted by increased intangible amortization expense and interest expense on additional debt related to the acquisition of
 
                       
TALX.  On a non-GAAP basis, excluding the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, net income increased 7 percent.
 
                 
EBITDA (a non-GAAP financial measure defined as operating income adding back depreciation and amortization expense) was $165.7 million, up 11 percent from the second quarter of 2007.
 
                 
During the second quarter 2008, we repurchased 1.1 million of our common shares on the open market for $44.1 million.  At June 30, 2008, our remaining authorization for future share repurchases was $232.8 million.
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions ("USCIS")
Total revenue was $228.6 million in the second quarter of 2008, a 9 percent decrease from the second quarter of 2007, due to continued weakness in the U.S. economy which affected each of the USCIS businesses.  Operating margin for USCIS was 38.0 percent in the second quarter of 2008, down slightly from 38.6 percent in the first quarter of 2008.  Operating margin in the second quarter of 2007 was 40.4 percent.
 
International
Total revenue was $137.5 million in the second quarter of 2008, a 19 percent increase from the second quarter of 2007. In local currency, revenue was up 10 percent when compared to the same period in the prior year.  Compared to the second quarter of 2007:
 
                 
Europe revenue was $46.4 million, up 3 percent in U.S. dollars (1 percent in local currency);
                 
Latin America revenue was $61.1 million, up 38 percent in U.S. dollars (23 percent in local currency); and
                 
Canada Consumer revenue was $30.0 million, up 15 percent in U.S. dollars (6 percent in local currency).
 
Operating margin for International was 30.6 percent in the second quarter of 2008 up from 29.0 percent in the second quarter of 2007.
 
TALX
Total revenue was $76.7 million and operating margin was 17.7 percent for the second quarter of 2008.  During the quarter, total records in the employment database grew to 179.2 million, up 18 percent from a year ago.
 
North America Personal Solutions
Total revenue rose to $41.5 million, an 8 percent increase from the second quarter of 2007. Operating margin was 25.1 percent, up from 19.0 percent in the second quarter of 2007.
 
North America Commercial Solutions
Total revenue rose to $17.6 million, a 15 percent increase from the second quarter of 2007. Operating margin was 16.0 percent, up from 6.4 percent in the second quarter of 2007.
 
About Equifax
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, employment and income verification and human resources business process outsourcing services, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
Customers have trusted Equifax for over 100 years to deliver innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, HR/payroll services, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. employs approximately 7,000 people in 15 countries throughout North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
www.equifax.com
 
Earnings Conference Call and Audio Webcast
 
In conjunction with this release, Equifax will host a conference call tomorrow, July 22, 2008, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT) via a live audio webcast.  To access the webcast, go to the Investor Center of our website at www.equifax.com
. The discussion will be available via replay at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the webcast.  This press release is also available at that website.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This earnings release presents operating income and operating margin excluding acquisition-related amortization expense; net income and diluted EPS excluding acquisition-related amortization expense; and EBITDA, which we define as operating income adding back depreciation and amortization expense.  These are important financial measures for Equifax but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of operating income, operating margin, net income or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP.  EBITDA as we have calculated it may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related notes are presented in the Q&A.  This information can also be found under "Investors/GAAP/Non-GAAP Measures" on our website at www.equifax.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are made on the basis of management's views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made.  Management does not undertake any obligation to update these statements.
 
 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.  Such differences may result from actions taken by Equifax, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond Equifax's control, including but not limited to changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment, changes in demand for Equifax's products and services, our ability to develop new products and services, pricing and other competitive pressures, our ability to achieve targeted cost efficiencies, risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data, risks associated with our ability to complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including federal or state responses to identity theft concerns, and the outcome of our pending litigation.  Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifax's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 under Item 1A, "Risk Factors".
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
1.
                                     
Can you provide a further analysis of operating revenue and operating income by operating segment?
Operating revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
 
 
 
 
nm - - not meaningful
 
 
2.
                                     
Can you provide a further analysis of operating revenue in the product and services lines, or geographic regions within each operating segment?
Operating revenue consists of the following components:
 
 
 
 
3.
                                     
What drove the fluctuation in the effective tax rate?
Our effective income tax rate was 35.3% for the three months ended June 30, 2008, down from 35.8% for the same period in 2007, due primarily to a greater amount of favorable discrete items in 2008 than in 2007; both related to our foreign tax credit utilization.  The effective income tax rate was 36.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2008, up from 36.1% for the same period in 2007 due primarily to matters discussed above and favorable discrete items recorded during the first quarter of 2007 related to state and foreign taxes, which did not recur in 2008.
 
4.
                                     
Can you provide depreciation and amortization by segment?
Depreciation and amortization are as follows:
 
 
5.
                                     
What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
The U.S. dollar impact on operating revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
 
 
* Canada financial results include amounts reported in our North America Commercial Solutions and International operating segments.
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
A.
                                   
Reconciliation of operating income to adjusted operating income, excluding acquisition-related amortization expense and presentation of adjusted operating margin:
 
 
 
B.
                                   
Reconciliation of net income to net income, adjusted for acquisition-related amortization expense and net income to diluted EPS, adjusted for acquisition-related amortization expense:
 
 
 
 
 
C.
                                   
Reconciliation of operating income to EBITDA (operating income before depreciation and amortization expense):
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures
 
Adjusted operating income and operating margin, excluding acquisition-related amortization expense
- Management believes excluding the acquisition-related amortization expense from the calculation of operating income and margin, on a non-GAAP basis, is useful because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquisition-related intangible assets.
 
Net income and diluted EPS, adjusted for acquisition-related amortization expense
- We calculate these financial measures by excluding acquisition-related amortization expense, net of tax, from the determination of net income and also in the calculation of diluted EPS. These financial measures are not prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Management believes that these measures are useful because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquisition-related intangible assets.
 
EBITDA
- We calculate EBITDA by adding back depreciation and amortization expense to operating income. EBITDA is not prepared in conformity with GAAP since it excludes depreciation and amortization expense, as well as interest expense, minority interest in earnings (net of tax), other income, net, and provision for income taxes from earnings. This non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating income, operating margin, or cash provided by operating activities.  Management believes that EBITDA is a useful supplemental measure to investors because it is consistent with how management evaluates our financial performance and is frequently used by securities analysts and other interested parties to evaluate companies in our industry. Additionally, management uses this measure as an important metric for forecasting and analyzing future periods, as well as evaluating future investing and financing decisions.
 


