FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20091028092837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
FORM 8-K
 
 
Not Applicable
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01   Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On October 28, 2009, Equifax Inc. issued a press release relating to the closing of the previously reported acquisition of IXI Corporation.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
The following exhibit is being furnished with this report:
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For More Information
 
Equifax
Tim Klein
404-885-8555
404-771-2029 (wireless)
tim.klein@equifax.com
 
IXI
Erica Gunn
800-210-4323
www.ixicorp.com
 
Equifax Closes IXI Transaction
 
Atlanta  October 28, 2009  Equifax Inc. (NYSE:EFX) today confirmed it has satisfied all closing conditions and has completed its acquisition of IXI Corporation, a leader in collecting, analyzing and delivering consumer wealth and asset data.  IXI will now become part of Equifax's US Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS) unit.
 
IXI's primary center of operations will remain based in the McLean, VA area. Tom Dailey, currently president and CEO of IXI will continue as its leader reporting into USCIS President Dann Adams.
 
About Equifax (www.equifax.com)
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 14 other countries throughout North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poor's (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
About IXI Corporation
(www.IXIcorp.com
)
 
For over 15 years, IXI has helped the nation's leading financial services and consumer marketing firms optimize marketing efforts, manage risk, identify growth markets, and enhance practice and performance management.  IXI solutions enable marketing, sales, and risk management executives to differentiate and target consumer households based on measures of wealth, income, spending, credit, investment style, share-of-wallet, and share-of-market.
 
Through its exclusive network of more than 95 leading U.S. financial institutions, IXI directly measures approximately $10 trillion in U.S. consumer assets and investments, comprising over 42% of all U.S. invested assets. IXI combines its patented process for collecting and classifying consumer asset data with proprietary measures of income, spending, and credit, to create the most reliable and granular financial database available today. Using this unrivalled database, IXI builds solutions that provide firms financial and economic insight for every U.S. household.
 
IXI is a privately held company headquartered in McLean, Virginia. It was recently named to the Deloitte Touche 500 Fastest Growing Technology companies list.
 


