FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20100728170558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act
o
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act
o
 (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 28, 2010, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2010.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 28, 2010
 
3
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 
4
 

     
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today announced financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2010.  The company reported revenue from continuing operations of $460.7 million in the second quarter of 2010, a 7 percent increase from the second quarter of 2009.  Revenue increased 6 percent from the prior year excluding the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates.  Second quarter 2010 net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $57.7 million, a 2 percent increase from the prior year.  Diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations attributable to Equifax for the second quarter of 2010 was $0.45 compared to $0.44 in the same period of the prior year.  On a non-GAAP basis, adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax, which includes the operating results of discontinued operations, but excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense and the gain on the sale of our APPRO product line, was $0.58 compared to $0.57 in the second quarter of 2009.
ATLANTA, July 28, 2010
For the second quarter, we experienced broad-based revenue growth that was better than expected as overall market conditions began to improve and we continued to benefit from our new product innovations.  At the individual business unit level, International, TALX, North America Personal Solutions, and North America Commercial all exceeded our expectations.  US Consumer Information Solutions revenue was flat, in line with our expectations, while they significantly improved their operating margin from the first quarter," said Richard F. Smith, Equifax's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "We continue to be optimistic and expect improved, year-over-year performance for the third quarter consistent with the full year outlook we expressed at the beginning of the year."
 
Second Quarter 2010 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS)
Total revenue was $184.6 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $184.7 million in the second quarter of 2009.
Operating margin for USCIS was 37.1 percent in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 37.4 percent in the second quarter of 2009.
International
Total revenue was $118.2 million in the second quarter of 2010, a 12 percent increase over the second quarter of 2009.  In local currency, revenue was up 7 percent compared to the second quarter of 2009.
Operating margin for International was 25.4 percent in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 25.3 percent in the second quarter of 2009.
TALX
Total revenue was $99.0 million in the second quarter of 2010, a 15 percent increase over the second quarter of 2009.
Operating margin for TALX was 23.2 percent in the second quarter of 2010, consistent with the operating margin in the second quarter of 2009.
 
2
 
 
North America Personal Solutions
Revenue was $40.3 million, an 8 percent increase from the second quarter of 2009. Operating margin was 25.4 percent, up from 21.5 percent in the second quarter of 2009.
North America Commercial Solutions
Revenue was $18.6 million, up 13 percent in local currency and up 18 percent in U.S. dollars compared to the second quarter of 2009.  Operating margin was 20.2 percent, up from 15.4 percent in the second quarter of 2009.
Third Quarter 2010 Outlook
 
Based on the current level of domestic and international business activity and current foreign exchange rates, consolidated revenue for the third quarter of 2010 is expected to be up in the mid to upper single-digits from the year-ago quarter.  Third quarter 2010 adjusted EPS, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense and the gain that will be recognized from the DMS sale, is expected to be between $0.55 and $0.59.
 
(www.equifax.com)
About Equifax
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 14 other countries. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
Earnings Conference Call and Audio Webcast
 
In conjunction with this release, Equifax will host a conference call tomorrow, July 29, 2010, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT) via a live audio webcast.  To access the webcast, go to the Investor Center of our website at . The discussion will be available via replay at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the webcast.  This press release is also available at that website.
www.equifax.com
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This earnings release presents diluted EPS attributable to Equifax which includes the results of discontinued operations, but excludes acquisition-related amortization expense, gain from sale of business and a restructuring charge in the prior year, all net of tax.  These are important financial measures for Equifax but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP.
 
3
 
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as an alternative measure of EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related notes are presented in the Q&A.  This information can also be found under Investor Center/GAAP/Non-GAAP Measures on our website at .
www.equifax.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are made on the basis of managements views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made.  Management does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.  Such differences may result from actions taken by Equifax, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond Equifaxs control, including but not limited to changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment, changes in demand for Equifax's products and services, our ability to develop new products and services, pricing and other competitive pressures, our ability to achieve targeted cost efficiencies, risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data, risks associated with our ability to complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including federal or state responses to identity theft concerns, and the outcome of our pending litigation.  Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
4
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
5
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
6
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
7
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
8
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
Operating revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
nm - not meaningful
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2010 results using 2009 exchange rates.
 
9
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
Our effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 35.3% for the three months ended June 30, 2010, down from 36.1% for the same period in 2009, due primarily to the impact of a favorable UK audit settlement recorded during the second quarter of 2010.
Depreciation and amortization are as follows:
The U.S. dollar impact on operating revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
10
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
nm - not meaningful
(1) Gain from sale of business includes gain from the sale of APPRO and certain direct costs of dispositions, net of tax.  See the Notes to this reconciliation for additional detail.
(2) Restructuring charge includes $8.4 million of severance expense in the first quarter of 2009.  See the Notes to this reconciliation for additional detail.
 
11
 
 
Notes to Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures
 
 During the second quarter of 2010, the Company sold its APPRO loan origination software business.  The Company recorded an $11.9 million gain, net of tax which includes the gain from the sale along with certain direct costs of business dispositions.  Management believes excluding this gain from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2010, as compared to 2009, since a gain of such an amount is not comparable among the periods.  This is consistent with how our management reviews and assesses Equifaxs historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
Gain from Sale of Business
 
 
 During the first quarter of 2009, the Company recorded a restructuring charge primarily related to severance expense of $8.4 million, pretax, ($5.4 million, net of tax) in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  Management believes excluding this charge from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the six months ended June 30, 2009, as compared to 2010, since a charge of such an amount is not comparable among the periods.  This is consistent with how our management reviews and assesses Equifaxs historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
Restructuring Charge
 
- We calculate this financial measure by excluding acquisition-related amortization expense and the 2009 restructuring charge, both net of tax, from the determination of net income attributable to Equifax in the calculation of diluted EPS.  Net income attributable to Equifax includes the results of our discontinued operation as management has had responsibility for operating profitability of this business during the period presented. These financial measures are not prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Management believes that these measures are useful because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and other items that are not comparable when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquisition-related intangible assets and items that impact comparability.
Diluted EPS attributable to Equifax, adjusted for acquisition-related amortization expense and restructuring charge
 
12
 


