FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20100510163143.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
On May 7, 2010, Equifax Inc. (the Company) held its annual meeting of shareholders in Atlanta, Georgia (Annual Meeting).As of March 3, 2010, the Companys record date, there were a total of 126,249,327 shares of Common Stock, par value $1.25 per share, outstanding and entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. At the Annual Meeting, 109,797,617 shares of Common Stock were represented in person or by proxy, therefore a quorum was present.
 
 
The shareholders of the Company voted on the following items at the Annual Meeting:
 
 
 
Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc., the Companys duly appointed independent inspector of elections, reported the vote of the shareholders as follows:
 
Votes regarding the election of the nominees listed below as directors of the Company were as follows:
 
 
Based on the votes set forth above, the foregoing persons were duly elected to serve as directors for a term expiring at the annual meeting of shareholders in 2011 or until their respective successors have are elected and qualified.
 
Other directors continuing in office following the Annual Meeting were James E. Copeland, Jr., Mark L. Feidler, Siri S. Marshall, John A. McKinley and Richard F. Smith. 
William W. Caufield has announced his retirement from the Board of Directors effective as of June 1, 2010.
 
The proposal to ratify the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal 2010 received the following votes:
 
 
Based on the votes set forth above, the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company to serve for the fiscal year 2010 was duly ratified by the Companys shareholders.
 
 
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The information disclosed under Item 5.07 is incorporated in this item by reference.
 
On May 7, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing, among other matters disclosed, that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $150 million of its common stock in connection with a previously authorized share repurchase program.   This amount is in addition to the approximately $112.6 million unused Board authorization which was available at March 31, 2010 under the existing share repurchase program.  Repurchases under the program will be effected from time to time through open market and privately negotiated transactions, subject to market conditions.  The program has no stated expiration date.  A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
The information provided in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
The following exhibit is being furnished with this report:
 
 
 

 
 
DRAFT #2
 
 
Equifax Inc. (NYSE: ) today announced that the Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.04 per share, payable on June 15, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 25, 2010.  Equifax has paid cash dividends for 96 consecutive years.
ATLANTA, GA, May 7, 2010 --
EFX
 
 
Equifax also announced that the Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $150 million of the companys common stock.  Stock repurchases under this program may be made through open-market and privately negotiated transactions at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate.  The stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice.
 
 
Equifax continues to drive shareholder value through organic growth and investment in key strategic initiatives while maintaining a strong balance sheet and repurchasing shares in the open market, said Richard F. Smith, Equifax Chairman and CEO. The Board's decision to expand the authorization level for share repurchases underscores the confidence they have in the future of Equifax.
 
 
 
About Equifax ()
www.equifax.com
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 14 other countries throughout North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.


