FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20100730151028.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On April 23, 2010, Equifax Inc. (the Company) sold its Equifax Enabling Technologies LLC legal entity, consisting of its APPRO loan origination software product line (APPRO), for approximately $72 million. On July 1, 2010, the Company completed the sale of its Direct Marketing Services division (DMS) for approximately $117 million. Both of these businesses have been accounted for as a discontinued operation, which requires that prior period information be recast to remove the results of operations of the disposed businesses from the results of the Companys continuing operations. APPRO was reported as a discontinued operation in the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 29, 2010 ("First Quarter 2010 10-Q"). DMS was reported as a discontinued operation in the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 29, 2010.
The Company is recasting the presentation of its financial information for all periods presented in certain sections of its Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 23, 2010 (2009 Form 10-K) to present APPRO and DMS as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Included in this Form 8-K are the following items recast solely to reflect the impact of discontinued operations on the Companys consolidated financial information:
 
The Company is also recasting the presentation of its financial information for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 presented in certain sections of its First Quarter 2010 10-Q to conform to the new reporting structure noted above. Included in this Form 8-K report are the following items recast solely to reflect the impact of discontinued operations on the Companys consolidated financial information:
 
 
2
 
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)  Exhibits:
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
4
 
The following exhibit is being furnished with this report:
 
5
 

   
Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:
 
 
of our report dated February 23, 2010 (except for the Segments, Advertising, Trade Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts, and Long Lived Assets sections of Note 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Purchased Intangible Assets section of Note 3, paragraph 3 of the Leases section of Note 5, paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 of Note 6, paragraph 5 of Note 10, the amounts in the operating revenue, operating income, depreciation and amortization expense schedules of Note 12, and Note 14, as to which the date is July 30, 2010) with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Equifax Inc., and our report dated February 23, 2010 with respect to the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Equifax Inc., included in this Current Report on Form 8-K
, and our report dated on February 23, 2010 with respect to the financial statement schedule in the Annual Report (Form 10-K) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 23, 2010.
 
 
 
 

   
Exhibit 99.1
 
PART I
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
The table below summarizes our selected historical financial information for each of the last five years. The historical selected financial information may not be indicative of our future performance and should be read in conjunction with the information contained in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company, we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc.
 
All references to earnings per share data in Managements Discussion and Analysis, or MD&A, are to diluted earnings per share, or EPS, unless otherwise noted. Diluted EPS is calculated to reflect the potential dilution that would occur if stock options or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised and resulted in additional common shares outstanding.
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
We are a leading global provider of information solutions, employment, income and social security number verifications and human resources business process outsourcing services. We leverage some of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights which enable our business customers to grow faster, more efficiently, more profitably and to inform and empower consumers.
 
Businesses rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, credit portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and human resources and payroll services. We also offer a portfolio of products that enable individual consumers to manage their financial affairs and protect their identity. Our revenue stream is diversified among individual consumers and among businesses across a wide range of industries and international geographies.
 
Segment and Geographic Information
 
  The U.S. Consumer Information Solutions, or USCIS, segment, the largest of our five segments, consists of three product and service lines: Online Consumer Information Solutions, or OCIS; Mortgage Solutions; and Consumer Financial Marketing Services. OCIS and Mortgage Solutions revenue is principally transaction-based and is derived from our sales of products such as consumer credit reporting and scoring, mortgage settlement services, identity verification, fraud detection and modeling services. USCIS also markets certain of our decisioning products which facilitate and automate a variety of consumer credit-oriented decisions. Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue is principally project- and subscription-based and is derived from our sales of batch credit, consumer wealth or demographic information such as those that assist clients in acquiring new customers, cross-selling to existing customers and managing portfolio risk.
Segments.
 
The International segment consists of Canada Consumer, Europe and Latin America. Canada Consumers products and services are similar to our USCIS offerings, while Europe and Latin America are made up of varying mixes of product lines that are in our USCIS, North America Commercial Solutions and North America Personal Solutions reportable segments.
 
The TALX segment consists of The Work Number and Tax and Talent Management business units. The Work Number revenue is transaction-based and is derived primarily from employment, income and social security number verifications. Tax and Talent Management revenues are derived from our provision of certain human resources business process outsourcing services that include both transaction- and subscription-based product offerings. These services assist our customers with the administration of unemployment claims and employer-based tax credits and the assessment of new hires.
 
 
 
 
North America Personal Solutions revenue is both transaction- and subscription-based and is derived from the sale of credit monitoring, debt management and identity theft protection products, which we deliver to consumers through the mail and electronically via the internet.
 
North America Commercial Solutions revenue is principally transaction-based, with the remainder project-based, and is derived from the sale of business information, credit scores and portfolio analytics that enable customers to utilize our reports to make financial, marketing and purchasing decisions related to businesses.
 
  We currently operate in the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Peru, Portugal, the Republic of Ireland, Spain, the U.K., Uruguay, and the U.S. Our operations in Costa Rica and the Republic of Ireland focus on data handling and customer support activities. We own an equity interest in a consumer credit information company in Russia. During 2009, we formed a joint venture, pending regulatory approval, to provide a broad range of credit data and information solutions in India. Of the countries we operate in, 73% of our revenue was generated in the U.S. during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009.
Geographic Information.
 
  Management focuses on a variety of key indicators to monitor operating and financial performance. These performance indicators include measurements of operating revenue, change in operating revenue, operating income, operating margin, net income, diluted earnings per share, cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures. The key performance indicators for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, include the following:
Key Performance Indicators.
 
 
Operational Highlights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
Business Environment, Company Outlook and Strategy
 
We continue to be challenged by a difficult operating environment, causing a reduction in revenue for certain traditional credit-related services. Also, increased regulation is introducing new complexity in the marketing of product and service offerings to financial institutions and increasing compliance requirements for our customers. Accordingly, we are further diversifying our revenues by pursuing and investing in key strategic initiatives including new product innovation, differentiated decisioning solutions leveraging our diverse data assets and technology, acquiring new data assets and technologies, and international expansion. We are also focused on managing our expenses through the use of LEAN, Workout and other process improvement initiatives in order to maintain operating margins, earnings performance, and cash flow.
 
For 2010, we anticipate GDP growth to be modest, but improving; employment to see slight improvement during the second half of the year; and home prices to continue to face pressure due to foreclosures. We anticipate increasing interest for our services from credit card issuers as the new credit card regulatory changes became effective in February of this year. As a result, we expect to see revenue growth gradually improve in 2010. Given our outlook and current foreign exchange rates, we expect operating results to be stable at their current levels during the first half of the year, with some increase in performance during the second half.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
TWELVE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009, 2008 AND 2007
 
Consolidated Financial Results
 
Operating Revenue
 
 
The decrease in revenue for 2009, as compared to 2008, was primarily due to continued global economic weakness, which significantly impacted demand for our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions, International and North America Personal Solutions business units when compared to 2008, as well as the unfavorable effects of foreign exchange rates. Foreign currency negatively impacted 2009 revenue by $48.9 million, or 3%. This decrease was partially offset by strength in our TALX segment and Mortgage Solutions business within U.S. Consumer Information Solutions. For additional information about revenue fluctuations and operating income by segment, see Segment Financial Results below.
 
2008 revenue increased 6%, or $106.9 million, compared to 2007 primarily due to the full year inclusion of TALX, which was acquired on May 15, 2007. Revenue in our four other business units collectively declined by $18.8 million, or 1%, as growth in our International, North America Personal Solutions and North America Commercial Solutions segments through the first nine months of the year was able to partially, but not fully, offset an 8% decline in our USCIS business. Although the impact of foreign currency exchange rates on 2008 full year revenue growth was minimal, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to 2007 exchange rates negatively impacted fourth quarter revenue growth.
 
3
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
  The decrease in cost of services for 2009, as compared to the prior year, was primarily due to the impact of foreign currency translation. The impact of foreign currency translation decreased our cost of services by $19.2 million during 2009. The remaining decrease was due to lower technology outsourcing costs resulting from a renegotiated contract with a large service provider and lower personnel costs resulting from our third quarter 2008 and 2009 headcount reductions. This decrease was partially offset by increased production costs related to growth in demand for our settlement services products within our Mortgage Solutions business and increased postretirement employee benefit costs. We reclassified $13.2 million and $5.4 million of selling, general and administrative expense during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, to cost of services to conform to the current period presentation.
Cost of Services.
 
Cost of services in 2008 increased, as compared to 2007, mainly as a result of our acquisition of TALX, which contributed $38.3 million of incremental cost period-over-period, as well as increased production and salary costs related to growth in our Latin America operations. These increases were partially offset by declining costs due to decreased revenue and expense efficiency initiatives in USCIS.
 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses for 2009 decreased $20.4 million when compared to 2008. Of this decline, $12.7 million resulted from foreign currency translation. The remaining decrease was primarily due to reduced legal expenses, lower technology and occupancy costs and reduced personnel and incentive costs due to the 2008 and 2009 headcount reductions, partially offset by a $10.4 million increase in restructuring charges in 2009, increased advertising and insurance costs and higher postretirement employee benefits cost.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
 
Selling, general and administrative expense for 2008, as compared to 2007, increased mainly as a result of our acquisition of TALX, which contributed $39.2 million of incremental cost year-over-year. This increase was also due to a $14.4 million charge recorded in the third quarter of 2008 related to headcount reductions and certain contractual costs. These charges were related to our business realignment to better support our strategic objectives in the current economic environment. These increases were partially offset by reduced personnel costs, incentive expenses and discretionary spending based on actions taken as a response to the deteriorating U.S. economy in 2008.
 
  Depreciation and amortization expense increased $3.0 million over 2008. Excluding the positive foreign currency translation impact of $2.6 million, depreciation and amortization expense increased $5.6 million over the prior year. The increase is primarily due to our fourth quarter 2009 acquisitions of IXI Corporation and Rapid Reporting Verification Company which contributed $1.8 million of incremental depreciation and amortization expense and the inclusion of a full year of depreciation and amortization expense for our 2008 acquisitions, partially offset by the absence of a $2.4 million software write-down charge recognized in 2008.
Depreciation and Amortization.
 
The increase in depreciation and amortization expense for 2008, as compared to 2007, was primarily due to the inclusion of a full year of results from our acquisition of TALX, which contributed $24.3 million of incremental depreciation and amortization expense in 2008, and a $2.4 million software write-down charge recorded in the third quarter of 2008 associated with our business realignment.
 
4
 
 
For additional information about our restructuring charges, see Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Operating Income and Operating Margin
 
The decline in operating margin for 2009, as compared to 2008, was primarily due to lower operating income in our USCIS, International and North America Personal Solutions segments and $8.0 million of additional restructuring charges in 2009, partially offset by growth in our TALX operating income. The operating income declines for the aforementioned segments are attributed to reductions in revenue resulting from global economic weakness, partially offset by lower operating expenses due to headcount reductions, reduced incentive costs and lower technology outsourcing costs.
 
5
 
The decline in the operating margin for 2008, as compared to 2007, mainly reflects higher acquisition-related amortization expense, which increased $20.9 million primarily due to our acquisition of TALX; the increase in general corporate expense, which includes the $16.8 million restructuring and asset write-down charges related to our business realignment recorded in the third quarter of 2008; and the decrease in operating margin for our USCIS business, as described in more detail below.
 
Other Expense, Net
 
 
The decrease in other expense, net, for 2009, as compared to 2008, was primarily due to lower interest rates on our floating rate debt, which drove the average cost of our total debt from 5.3% in 2008 to 4.8% in 2009, as well as a reduced level of debt outstanding during 2009. Our average debt balance fell to $1.18 billion in 2009 from $1.34 billion in 2008. For additional information about our debt agreements, see Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Other income, net, for 2009 primarily includes a $2.2 million mark-to-market adjustment on certain insurance policies, a $1.1 million gain on our repurchase of $7.5 million principal amount of our ten-year senior notes due 2017 and a $1.3 million gain related to a litigation settlement.
 
The increase in other expense, net, for 2008, as compared to the prior period, was primarily due to increased interest expense driven by a higher level of debt which was used to fund the acquisition of TALX in 2007 and our share repurchase activity in both years. Our average debt balance rose to $1.34 billion in 2008 from $963.5 million in 2007. Other income, net, in 2008 includes a $5.5 million gain on our repurchase of $20 million principal amount of ten-year senior notes due 2017.
 
Income Taxes
 
 
Our effective income tax rate for 2009 was up slightly compared to 2008. The 2009 rate reflects the recognition of a $7.3 million income tax benefit in the fourth quarter of 2009 related to our ability to utilize foreign tax credits beyond 2009. Additionally, we recorded favorable discrete items in 2009 related to foreign and state taxes and an investment loss in a subsidiary. With the fourth quarter 2009 adjustments, we have recognized the benefit of foreign tax credit carryforwards that would have reduced future tax expense. As a result, we expect our effective tax rate in 2010 to increase to a range of 37% to 38%.
 
Our effective income tax rate for 2008 was down from 2007, primarily due to the recognition of a $14.6 million income tax benefit in the third quarter of 2008 related to the reversal of a reserve associated with our Brazilian operations, for which the statute of limitations expired during that quarter.
 
6
 
 
Net Income
 
 
The decrease in net income for 2009, as compared to 2008, was a function of lower operating income in three of our five businesses and $8.0 million of additional restructuring charges in 2009, partially offset by increased income from our TALX and North America Commercial Solutions segments and lower interest expense.
 
Net income for 2008, as compared to 2007, was flat as contribution from TALX since its acquisition in May 2007, growth in operating income for International, North America Personal Solutions and North America Commercial Solutions, and lower income tax expense were offset by higher general corporate expense, which includes the aforementioned restructuring and asset write-down charges recorded in 2008, lower operating income for our USCIS businesses and higher interest expense. Our 2008 earnings per share, as compared to 2007, was positively impacted by the reduction in our weighted-average shares outstanding resulting from the repurchase of 4.5 million shares in 2008.
 
In the second quarter of 2010, we sold our Equifax Enabling Technologies LLC legal entity, consisting of our APPRO loan origination software (APPRO). On July 1, 2010, we sold the assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (DMS).  These businesses are reflected as discontinued operations.  For 2009 and 2008, as compared to the prior year periods, discontinued operations declined primarily due to reduced mailing volumes for existing customers reflecting the slowdown in retail sales and the marketing campaigns of many retailers, as well as changes to a contract with a large marketing services reseller.
 
Segment Financial Results
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions
 
 
The decreases in revenue and operating margin for 2009 and 2008, as compared to the prior year periods, were mainly due to continued weakness in the U.S. credit and retail economy, offset by growth in the Mortgage Solutions business due to increased activity associated with our settlement services products and increased mortgage refinancing activity in 2009.
 
7
 
 
  Revenue for 2009, as compared to the prior year, declined primarily due to a reduction of online credit decision transaction volume as consumer lending activity was lower than a year ago. The 18% decline in volume for 2009, from the prior year, was partially offset by a 4% increase in average revenue per transaction. This increase was attributable to a disproportionate decline in volume from large national accounts which are generally billed at a lower average price per transaction. For 2008, as compared to 2007, revenue declined primarily due to a 7% reduction of online credit decision transaction volume resulting from the weakness of the U.S. economy.
OCIS.
 
  The 2009 increase in revenue, as compared to 2008, is due to increased activity associated with growth in demand for our settlement services products which resulted in increased revenue of $16.5 million over 2008, higher volumes of mortgage credit reporting related to increased refinance activity and incremental revenue from our acquisition of certain assets of a small mortgage credit reporting reseller. For 2008, as compared to 2007, revenue grew due to a four-fold increase in activity associated with our settlement services products and incremental revenue from our acquisition of certain assets of FIS Credit Services, Inc. in February 2008. These increases were partially offset by continued weakness in the U.S. housing market, which led to reduced transaction volumes from our existing mortgage customer base.
Mortgage Solutions.
 
  Revenue decreased in 2009 as compared to 2008. As banks and other market participants reassess current credit conditions and selectively test new marketing approaches, prescreen volumes and pricing for portfolio management services have declined in what remains a highly competitive market. This decline was partially offset by approximately $6 million of incremental revenue from our acquisition of IXI Corporation in October 2009. For 2008, as compared to the prior year, revenue declined due to volume decreases from our existing customer base, primarily due to lower revenue associated with new account acquisition services as financial institutions scaled back significantly on new marketing and extension of credit. These declines were partially offset by a continued increase in revenue related to customer portfolio management services used by institutions to manage and sustain existing customers. Our financial services customers began increased usage of our portfolio management services in 2007 and less usage of prescreen services, which reflects a continuing trend towards the enhanced management of their existing customer portfolios as opposed to new account acquisitions.
Consumer Financial Marketing Services.
 
  Operating margin decreased for 2009, as compared to 2008, mainly due to revenue declines described above in our OCIS and Consumer Financial Marketing Services businesses. Our operating expenses generally do not decline at the same rate as our revenue due to a high portion of costs that are fixed rather than variable in the short term. The overall decline in revenue was partially offset by lower personnel costs due to headcount reductions, process efficiencies and lower technology outsourcing costs. The increases in revenue from our core mortgage and settlement services products also contributed to the USCIS margin decline as these products have higher variable costs and lower margins than traditional online database products. Recognizing the continuing impact of current economic conditions, management has taken and is continuing to take steps to streamline operations and increase efficiency in order to minimize the negative effect on operating margins of any continued decreases in revenue.
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions Operating Margin.
 
Operating margin decreased for 2008, as compared to 2007, mainly due to the decline in revenue described above. With a high portion of fixed costs, USCIS operating expenses generally do not decline at the same rate as our revenue. The decline in revenue was partially offset by lower production and royalty costs due to a decrease in volume, as well as the impact of cost saving initiatives.
 
8
 
International
 
 
For 2009, as compared to 2008, revenue decreased primarily due to the negative impact of foreign currency translation and secondarily due to global economic weakness affecting several of our larger international country operations. Local currency fluctuation against the U.S. dollar negatively impacted our 2009 International revenue by $47.2 million, or 9%. In local currency, 2009 revenue was down 4%, as compared to the same period a year ago. For 2008, as compared to 2007, revenue increased primarily due to growth in Latin America and Canada, offset by a decline in Europe due to weakness in the U.K. economy. Local currency fluctuation against the U.S. dollar minimally impacted our International revenue in 2008. In local currency, revenue was up 7% in 2008, when compared to the prior year.
 
  The decline in revenue for 2009, as compared to the prior year, was partially due to the unfavorable foreign currency impact of $21.3 million, or 12%. In local currency, revenue declined 9% for 2009, as compared to the same period in 2008. The local currency declines were due to decreased volume in the U.K. caused by weakness in the U.K. economy affecting customer demand, which was partially offset by higher volumes and new customers for our online services and new collections products in Spain and Portugal. The decrease in revenue for 2008, as compared to 2007, was primarily due to the impact of foreign currency. Local currency fluctuation against the U.S. dollar negatively impacted Europe revenue by $8.4 million, or 5%, for 2008, when compared to 2007. Growth in the U.K. in the first half of 2008 was offset by declines in revenue, when compared to 2007, in the last six months of 2008 attributable to the weakening U.K. economy.
Europe.
 
  Revenue declined for 2009, as compared to the prior year, due to the unfavorable foreign currency impact of $18.9 million, or 9%. In local currency, 2009 revenue was approximately flat when compared to 2008. Local currency revenue declines in Brazil and Chile were offset by increased revenue in our other Latin American geographies resulting from increased volumes for our collection services and decisioning technology products. The revenue declines in Brazil and Chile were mainly due to lower volumes related to our online solutions, marketing products and decisioning technologies, resulting primarily from competitive factors in these geographies.
Latin America.
 
For 2008, as compared to 2007, increased revenue was driven by double-digit growth in all countries in which we operate. Local currency fluctuation against the U.S. dollar favorably impacted Latin America revenue growth by $9.3 million, or 5%, for 2008, when compared to 2007, as revenue in local currency grew 15%, when comparing these periods. This broad-based revenue growth was primarily due to higher volumes related to our online solutions, decisioning technologies and marketing products, as well as a new contract in Brazil to provide data to a large regional consumer services data provider. The increases were also impacted by acquisitions of several small businesses in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador and El Salvador during 2008.
 
  The decline in revenue for 2009, as compared to the prior year, was partially due to an unfavorable foreign currency impact of $7.0 million, or 6%. In local currency, revenue declined 4% for 2009, as compared to 2008. The decline in local currency was due to lower volumes related to our online solutions and marketing products resulting from weakness in the economy, partially offset by increased volumes for our analytical and decisioning technology products. For 2008, as compared to 2007, revenue growth was driven by higher prices and volume related to our marketing services and technology products. Local currency fluctuation against the U.S. dollar favorably impacted revenue growth by $1.2 million, or 1%, and revenue in local currency grew 3% for 2008, as compared to 2007. Although revenue increased year over year, revenue growth during the first nine months of 2008 was partially offset by weakness in the fourth quarter revenue due to the stronger U.S. dollar and deteriorating conditions in the Canadian economy.
Canada Consumer.
 
9
 
 
  Operating margin decreased for 2009, as compared to 2008, due to the revenue declines discussed above. Operating expenses decreased 1% for 2009, in local currency, when compared to 2008. Operating margin for 2008 was relatively flat at 29.6%, when compared to 2007 as operating expenses for the overall International business were generally maintained in line with revenue.
International Operating Margin.
 
TALX
 
 
  Revenue increased in 2009, as compared to 2008, due to the increased volumes of verifications of consumer employment from government service agencies, who use our services to approve benefits to consumers under certain government programs, and verifications of employment and income by financial institutions, who confirm consumer data for use in underwriting decisions. Our acquisition of Rapid Reporting Verification Company in November 2009 provided approximately $5 million of incremental revenue. The financial results of TALXs operations are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on May 15, 2007, resulting in a partial period for 2007. This is the primary reason for the significant increase in revenue for 2008, as compared to 2007.
The Work Number.
 
  The increase in revenue during 2009, as compared to 2008, resulted from growth in our Tax Management Services business driven primarily by increased unemployment compensation claims activity due to the high levels of unemployment in the U.S., partially offset by declines in volume from our Talent Management Services business during the first half of the year, as demand was negatively impacted by reduced hiring activity by employers, particularly governmental agencies who are key clients, caused by the weakened economy and budgetary pressures. The significant increase in revenue for 2008, as compared to 2007, is primarily due to the partial reporting period for 2007 as results were included subsequent to the May 15, 2007 acquisition date.
Tax and Talent Management Services.
 
  Operating margin increased for 2009, as compared to 2008, due to continued revenue growth, while operating expenses grew at a slower rate due to the leveraging of certain fixed operational and overhead costs and certain operating process efficiencies.
TALX Operating Margin.
 
North America Personal Solutions
 
 
10
 
 
Revenue declined for 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily due to lower transaction sales, as a result of lower levels of new consumer credit activity, and lower corporate data breach revenues. These declines were partially offset by direct to consumer, Equifax-branded subscription service revenue, which was up 4% for 2009, as compared to the prior year, driven by higher new sales and higher average revenue per subscription, reflecting additional features in the Equifax offering. Total subscription customers, including direct to consumer Equifax-branded services and subscriptions related to data breach offers, were 1.0 million at December 31, 2009. The operating margin decline in 2009, as compared to the prior year, was primarily due to the revenue decline discussed above, as well as increased advertising expenses, as the Company introduced a 2009 television advertising program in order to increase direct subscription sales.
 
For 2008, as compared to 2007, revenue increased primarily due to higher subscription revenue associated with our 3-in-1 Monitoring, ScoreWatch, CreditWatch, ID Patrol and Credit Report Control products, partially offset by declines in transaction revenue and breach revenue. Although revenue increased year over year, revenue growth during the first nine months of 2008 was partially offset by a 3% decline in fourth quarter revenue due to lower breach, partner and transaction-based revenue caused in part by the weakness in the U.S. economy. Total subscription customers were 1.2 million at December 31, 2008. The increase in operating margin in 2008 is mainly due to continued subscription-based revenue growth and reduced operating expenses driven by reduced customer support costs, when compared to 2007.
 
North America Commercial Solutions
 
 
Revenue declined for 2009, as compared to the prior year, due to the unfavorable impact of changes in the U.S.  Canadian foreign exchange rate of $1.7 million, or 2%. In local currency, 2009 revenue was flat when compared to 2008. Revenue declines in the U.S. and Canadian risk and marketing service revenues attributed to weakness in the U.S. and Canadian economies were offset by increased revenue from our data management products. Online transaction volume for U.S. commercial credit information products decreased 21% for 2009, as compared to the prior year, due to a slowdown in loan origination to small businesses. Operating margin increased for 2009, as compared to 2008, mainly due to reduced operating expenses resulting from lower personnel costs and discretionary expenses.
 
For 2008, as compared to 2007, revenue increased mainly due to higher sales volume for products in our U.S. Commercial business, as well as $0.3 million, or 1%, of favorable foreign currency impact. Although revenue increased year over year, revenue grew at low double digit rates during the first half of the year, but was essentially flat with the prior year in local currency due to increasing weakness in the U.S. and Canadian economies in the second half of the year. Online transaction volume for U.S. commercial credit information products increased to 4.9 million during 2008, up 4% from 2007. For 2008, as compared to 2007, operating margin increased primarily due to revenue growth in our U.S. Commercial business partially offset by increased personnel and software costs as we continued to invest for growth.
 
General Corporate Expense
 
 
11
 
 
Our general corporate expenses are costs that are incurred at the corporate level and include those expenses impacted by corporate direction, such as shared services, administrative, legal, equity compensation costs and restructuring expenses. General corporate expenses decreased slightly for 2009, as compared to 2008, primarily as a result of reduced incentive costs, lower legal and professional fees and reduced occupancy costs. This was partially offset by $8.0 million of additional restructuring charges recorded during 2009, as well as increased insurance costs. Total 2009 restructuring charges of $24.8 million related primarily to headcount reductions
, of which $4.1 million were related to discontinued operations.
 
General corporate expenses for 2008, as compared to 2007, increased primarily as a result of a $16.8 million restructuring and asset write-down charge during 2008, which consisted of a $10.3 million charge related to headcount reductions, a $4.1 million charge associated with certain contractual costs and a $2.4 million software write-down charge, all related to our business realignment. This increase was partially offset by reduced incentive costs, litigation and payroll tax.
of which $0.8 million related to discontinued operations,
 
LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
Management assesses liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund operating, investing and financing activities. We continue to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remain in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing our capital structure to meet short- and long-term objectives.
 
Sources and Uses of Cash
 
Funds generated by operating activities and our credit facilities continue to be our most significant sources of liquidity. We believe that funds generated from expected results of operations will be sufficient to finance our anticipated working capital and other cash requirements (such as capital expenditures, interest payments, potential pension funding contributions, dividend payments and stock repurchases, if any) for the foreseeable future. Since the beginning of 2009, credit market conditions have improved and we have primarily shifted our short-term borrowings to our commercial paper program. In the event that credit market conditions were to deteriorate, we would rely more heavily on borrowings as needed under our Senior Credit Facility described below. At December 31, 2009, $707.5 million was available to borrow under our Senior Credit Facility. Our Senior Credit Facility does not include a provision under which lenders could refuse to allow us to borrow under this facility in the event of a material adverse change in our financial condition, as long as we are in compliance with the covenants contained in the lending agreement.
 
Information about our cash flows, by category, is presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:
 
 
nm  not meaningful
 
Operating Activities
 
The decrease in operating cash flow for 2009 was primarily driven by $38.5 million of lower consolidated net income described above and $29.3 million of pension contributions in 2009 with no similar payments made in 2008. These items were partially offset by year to year increases in operating liabilities as reduced levels of accruals in 2008 did not recur.
 
12
 
 
Cash provided by operations in 2008 of $448.1 million was 1% less than in 2007. Although 2008 consolidated net income was flat when compared to 2007, higher depreciation and amortization expense and improved accounts receivable collections were offset by year to year reductions in operating liabilities.
 
  The ability of certain of our subsidiaries and associated companies to transfer funds to us is limited, in some cases, by certain restrictions imposed by foreign governments; these restrictions do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially limit our ability to service our indebtedness, meet our current obligations or pay dividends.
Fund Transfer Limitations.
 
Investing Activities
 
 
Our capital expenditures are used for developing, enhancing and deploying new and existing software in support of our expanding product set, replacing or adding equipment, updating systems for regulatory compliance, the licensing of software applications and investing in system reliability, security and disaster recovery enhancements. During 2007, our capital expenditures included the purchase of our data center facility in Atlanta, Georgia, for cash consideration of approximately $30 million, as well as the assumption of the prior owners $12.5 million mortgage obligation due in 2012, and improvements made to this facility. Capital expenditures in 2008 continued to be higher than the periods prior to 2007 due to additional improvements to our data center. Capital expenditures in 2009 were less than 2008, as data center infrastructure improvements were substantially completed in 2008. We expect capital expenditures in 2010 to be in the range of $75 million to $100 million, as we continue to invest for growth.
 
On February 27, 2009, we notified the lessor of our headquarters building in Atlanta, Georgia, that we intend to exercise our purchase option in accordance with the lease terms. By making this notification, we committed to purchase the building for $29.0 million on February 26, 2010. The exercise of our purchase option caused us to account for this lease obligation as a capital lease. We have recorded the building and the related obligation on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009. For additional information regarding our headquarters building lease, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
13
 
Acquisitions and Investments
 
 
  On December 23, 2009, as a part of our long-term growth strategy of expanding into emerging markets, we formed a joint venture, Equifax Credit Information Services Private Limited, or ECIS, to provide a broad range of credit data and information solutions in India. This joint venture is pending regulatory approval. We paid cash consideration of $5.2 million for our 49 percent equity interest in ECIS.
2009 Acquisitions and Investments.
 
On November 2, 2009, to further enhance our income and identity verification service offerings, we acquired Rapid Reporting Verification Company, a provider of IRS tax transcript information and social security number authentication services, for $72.5 million. The results of this acquisition have been included in our TALX operating segment subsequent to the acquisition.
 
On October 27, 2009, we acquired IXI Corporation, a provider of consumer wealth and asset data, for $124.0 million. This acquisition enables us to offer more differentiated and in-depth consumer income, wealth and other data to help our clients improve their marketing, collections, portfolio management and customer management efforts across different product segments. The results of this acquisition have been included in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions operating segment subsequent to the acquisition date.
 
We financed these purchases through borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility, which were subsequently refinanced through the issuance in November 2009 of our 4.45%, five-year unsecured Senior Notes. The 4.45% Senior Notes are further described in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
On August 12, 2009, in order to enhance our Mortgage Solutions business market share, we acquired certain assets and specified liabilities of a small mortgage credit reporting reseller for cash consideration of $3.8 million. The results of this acquisition have been included in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment subsequent to the acquisition date.
 
  To further enhance our market share and grow our credit data business, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, we completed nine acquisitions and investments in a number of small businesses totaling $27.4 million, net of cash acquired. Six of the transactions were in our International segment, two within our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment and one within our TALX segment. We recorded a $6.0 million liability at December 31, 2009, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, for the contingent earn-out payment associated with the acquired company within the TALX segment. The earn-out payment was measured on the completion of 2009 revenue targets and will be paid in 2010.
2008 Acquisitions and Investments.
 
On June 30, 2008, as a part of our long-term growth strategy of entering new geographies, we acquired a 28 percent equity interest in Global Payments Credit Services LLC, or GPCS, a credit information company in Russia, for cash consideration of $4.4 million, which is now doing business as Equifax Credit Services, LLC in Russia. Under our shareholders agreement, we have the option to acquire up to an additional 22 percent interest in GPCS between 2011 and 2013 for cash consideration based on a formula for determining equity value of the business and the assumption of certain debt, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.
 
14
 
 
On May 15, 2007, we acquired all the outstanding shares of TALX. Under the terms of the transaction, we issued 20.6 million shares of Equifax treasury stock and 1.9 million fully-vested options to purchase Equifax common stock, and paid approximately $288.1 million in cash, net of cash acquired. We also assumed TALXs outstanding debt, which had a fair value totaling $177.6 million at May 15, 2007. We financed the cash portion of the acquisition and $96.6 million outstanding on the TALX revolving credit facility at the date of acquisition initially with borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility, and subsequently refinanced this debt in the second quarter of 2007 with ten- and thirty-year notes. Subsequent to the date of the acquisition in 2007, we paid $4.1 million to the former owners of a company purchased by TALX pursuant to an earn-out agreement.
2007 Acquisitions. 
 
On October 19, 2007, in order to continue to grow our credit data business, our Peruvian subsidiary purchased 100% of the stock of a credit reporting business located in Peru for cash consideration of approximately $8.0 million.
 
For additional information about our acquisitions, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Financing Activities
 
 
Our principal unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks, which we refer to as the Senior Credit Facility, permits us to borrow up to $850.0 million through July 2011. The Senior Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes. Availability of the Senior Credit Facility for borrowings is reduced by the outstanding face amount of any letters of credit issued under the facility and, pursuant to our existing Board of Directors authorization, by the outstanding principal amount of our commercial paper notes, or CP. We currently intend to renew the Senior Credit Facility on or prior to its maturity date. Due to current tight conditions in the credit markets, we expect to face increased borrowing spreads as well as market trends of higher bank fees in connection with this renewal.
Credit Facility Availability. 
 
Our $850.0 million CP program has been established to allow for borrowing through the private placement of CP with maturities ranging from overnight to 397 days. We may use the proceeds of CP for general corporate purposes.
 
In June 2009, we amended our 364-day revolving credit agreement with a Canadian bank (our Canadian Credit Facility), to reduce the borrowing limit from C$40.0 million to C$20.0 million (denominated in Canadian dollars) and extending its maturity through June 2010. Borrowings may be used for general corporate purposes.
 
At December 31, 2009, there was outstanding $4.8 million under the Senior Credit Facility, which is included in long-term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet; $135.0 million in CP; and no amounts under our Canadian Credit Facility. The weighted-average interest rate on our CP, all with maturities less than 90 days, was 0.4% per annum. At December 31, 2009, a total of $726.7 million was available under our committed credit facilities.
 
At December 31, 2009, approximately 66% of our debt was fixed-rate debt and 34% was effectively variable-rate debt. Our variable-rate debt, consisting of CP, borrowings under our credit facilities and our five-year senior notes due 2014 (against which we have executed interest rate swaps to convert interest expense from fixed rates to floating rates), generally bears interest based on a specified margin plus a base rate (LIBOR) or on CP rates for investment grade issuers. The interest rates reset periodically, depending on the terms of the respective financing arrangements. At December 31, 2009, interest rates on our variable-rate debt ranged from 0.3% to 2.0%.
 
15
 
Net short-term borrowings (repayments) primarily represent activity under our CP program, as well as activity under our Canadian short-term revolving credit agreement. Net (repayments) borrowings under long-term revolving credit facilities relates to activity on our Senior Credit Facility. We primarily borrow under our CP program, when available.
Borrowing and Repayment Activity. 
 
The increase in net short-term borrowings (repayments) in 2009 primarily reflects the net issuance of $132.0 million of CP notes since December 31, 2008, offset by the repayment of $25.8 million under our Canadian Credit Facility. In 2008, the activity in this balance primarily reflects the net repayment of $216.5 million of the balance outstanding on our CP notes at December 31, 2007, offset by the increase of $25.8 million in borrowings under our Canadian Credit Facility. In 2007, net borrowing activity under our CP program was partially offset by net repayments under our trade receivables-backed revolving credit facility, which we elected to terminate on November 29, 2007.
 
The increase in net (repayments) borrowings for 2009 under long-term revolving credit facilities represents the repayment of borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2008, under our Senior Credit Facility as we increased our use of CP to fund our capital needs. In 2008, the net borrowing activity under long-term revolving credit facilities primarily represents our pay down of $216.5 million of CP outstanding at December 31, 2007 from cash from operations and borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility to lower the average cost of our debt and due to the adverse conditions in the CP market. In 2007, the net borrowing activity under long-term revolving credit facilities primarily represents our refinancing of the $250.0 million principal amount relating to our 4.95% senior notes which matured in November 2007.
 
In 2009, we purchased $7.5 million principal amount of our outstanding ten-year senior notes due 2017 for $6.3 million and $25.0 million principal amount of our outstanding debentures due 2028 for $25.1 million. During 2008, we purchased $20.0 million principal amount of the ten-year senior notes due 2017 for $14.3 million.
 
On November 4, 2009, we issued $275.0 million principal amount of 4.45%, five-year senior notes in an underwritten public offering. We used the net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes to repay amounts outstanding under our CP program, a portion of which was used to finance our fourth quarter 2009 acquisitions. In conjunction with our 2009 sale of five-year senior notes, we entered into five-year interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, which convert the debts fixed interest rate to a variable rate.
 
On June 28, 2007, we issued $300.0 million principal amount of 6.3%, ten-year senior notes and $250.0 million principal amount of 7.0%, thirty-year senior notes in underwritten public offerings. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the sale of these senior notes to reduce the outstanding amount of our CP. In conjunction with the sale of the 6.3% and 7.0% senior notes, we entered into cash flow hedges on $200.0 million and $250.0 million notional amount, respectively, of ten-year and thirty-year treasury notes. These hedges were settled in cash on June 25 and 26, 2007, respectively, the date the senior notes were sold, requiring a cash payment by us of $1.9 million and $3.0 million, respectively. There were no material proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt during 2008.
 
Our outstanding indentures and comparable instruments contain customary covenants including for example limits on secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. In addition, our Senior Credit Facility and Canadian Credit Facility each require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio of not more than 3.5 to 1.0, and limit the amount of subsidiary debt. Our leverage ratio was 2.09 at December 31, 2009. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations and, as of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants.
Debt Covenants. 
 
16
 
We do not have any credit rating triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our outstanding debt; however, our senior notes, discussed above, contain change in control provisions. If we experience a change of control or publicly announce our intention to effect a change of control and the rating on the senior notes is lowered by Standard & Poors, or S&P, and Moodys Investors Service, or Moodys, below an investment grade rating within 60 days of such change of control or notice thereof, then we will be required to offer to repurchase the senior notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the senior notes plus accrued and unpaid interest.
 
Credit ratings reflect an independent agencys judgment on the likelihood that a borrower will repay a debt obligation at maturity. The ratings reflect many considerations, such as the nature of the borrowers industry and its competitive position, the size of the company, its liquidity and access to capital and the sensitivity of a companys cash flows to changes in the economy. The two largest rating agencies, S&P and Moodys, use alphanumeric codes to designate their ratings. The highest quality rating for long-term credit obligations is AAA and Aaa for S&P and Moodys, respectively. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency.
Credit Ratings. 
 
Long-term ratings of BBB- and Baa3 or better by S&P and Moodys, respectively, reflect ratings on debt obligations that fall within a band of credit quality considered to be investment grade. At December 31, 2009, the long-term ratings for our obligations were BBB+ and Baa1, which are consistent with the ratings and outlooks which existed at December 31, 2008. A downgrade in our credit rating would increase the cost of borrowings under our CP program and credit facilities, and could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude our ability to issue CP. If our credit ratings were to decline to lower levels, we could experience increases in the interest cost for any new debt. In addition, the markets demand for, and thus our ability to readily issue, new debt could become further influenced by the economic and credit market environment.
 
For additional information about our debt, including the terms of our financing arrangements, basis for variable interest rates and debt covenants, see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Equity Transactions
 
 
Sources and uses of cash related to equity during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were as follows:
 
 
As of February 19, 2010, we had acquired an additional 0.3 million shares for $9.4 million since December 31, 2009.
 
17
 
 
Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments
 
The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2009. The table excludes commitments that are contingent based on events or factors uncertain at this time. Some of the excluded commitments are discussed below the footnotes to the table.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18
 
 
A potential significant future use of cash would be the payment to Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, if it were to exercise its option to sell its credit reporting business to us at any time prior to 2013. The option exercise price would be determined by agreement or by an appraisal process and would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the option. We estimate that if the option had been exercised at December 31, 2009, the price range would have been approximately $600 million to $675 million. This estimate is based solely on our internal analysis of the value of the business, current market conditions and other factors, all of which are subject to constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be materially higher or lower than our estimate. Our agreement with CSC, which expires on July 31, 2018, also provides us with an option to purchase its credit reporting business if it does not elect to renew the agreement or if there is a change in control of CSC while the agreement is in effect. If CSC were to exercise its option, or if we were able to and decided to exercise our option, then we would have to obtain additional sources of funding. We believe that this funding would be available from sources such as additional bank lines of credit and the capital markets for debt and/or equity financing. However, the availability and terms of any such capital financing would be subject to a number of factors, including credit market conditions, the state of the equity markets, general economic conditions, our credit ratings and our financial performance and condition.
 
19
 
Off-Balance Sheet Transactions
 
We do not engage in off-balance sheet financing activities.
 
Pursuant to the terms of the industrial revenue bonds, we transferred title to certain of our fixed assets with costs of $35.7 million and $28.4 million, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to a local governmental authority in the U.S. to receive a property tax abatement related to economic development. The title to these assets will revert back to us upon retirement or cancellation of the applicable bonds. These fixed assets are still recognized in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets as all risks and rewards remain with the Company.
 
Letters of Credit and Guarantees
 
We will from time to time issue standby letters of credit, performance bonds or other guarantees in the normal course of business. The aggregate notional amount of all performance bonds and standby letters of credit was not material at December 31, 2009, and all have a remaining maturity of one year or less. Guarantees are issued from time to time to support the needs of our operating units. The maximum potential future payments we could be required to make under the guarantees is not material at December 31, 2009.
 
Benefit Plans
 
Prior to December 31, 2009, we had one non-contributory qualified retirement plan covering most U.S. salaried employees (the Equifax Inc. Pension Plan, or EIPP), a qualified retirement plan that covered U.S. salaried employees (the U.S. Retirement Income Plan, or USRIP) who terminated or retired before January 1, 2005 and a defined benefit plan for most salaried and hourly employees in Canada (the Canadian Retirement Income Plan, or CRIP). On December 31, 2009, the plan assets and obligations of the EIPP were merged with the USRIP. The USRIP remained as the sole U.S. qualified retirement plan.
 
At December 31, 2009, the USRIP met or exceeded ERISAs minimum funding requirements. In January 2010, we made a contribution of $20.0 million to the USRIP. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2007, we made contributions of $15.0 million and $12.0 million, respectively, to the EIPP. We also contributed $1.8 million to the CRIP during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. The Equifax Employee Benefits Trust contributed $12.5 million to the EIPP upon dissolution of the Trust in 2009. In the future, we will make minimum funding contributions as required and may make discretionary contributions, depending on certain circumstances, including market conditions and liquidity needs. We believe additional funding contributions, if any, would not prevent us from continuing to meet our liquidity needs, which are primarily funded from cash flows generated by operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, and our credit facilities.
 
For our non-U.S., tax-qualified retirement plans, we fund an amount sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements but no more than allowed as a tax deduction pursuant to applicable tax regulations. For the non-qualified supplementary retirement plans, we fund the benefits as they are paid to retired participants, but accrue the associated expense and liabilities in accordance with GAAP.
 
For additional information about our benefit plans, see Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
Seasonality
 
We experience seasonality in certain of our revenue streams. Revenue generated from The Work Number business unit within the TALX operating segment is generally higher in the first quarter due primarily to the provision of Form W-2 preparation services which occur in the first quarter each year. Revenue from our OCIS and Mortgage Solutions business units tends to increase in periods of the year in which our customers have higher volumes of credit granting decisions, most commonly the second and third calendar quarters.
 
20
 
Effects of Inflation and Changes
in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates
 
Equifaxs operating results are not materially affected by inflation, although inflation may result in increases in the Companys expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Companys financial position and profitability.
 
A significant portion of the Companys business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored. We generally do not mitigate the risks associated with fluctuating exchange rates, although we may from time to time through forward contracts or other derivative instruments hedge a portion of our translational foreign currency exposure or exchange rate risks associated with material transactions which are denominated in a foreign currency.
 
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
For information about new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
POLICIES AND ESTIMATES
 
The Companys Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP. This requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different estimates reasonably could have been used in the current period, or changes in the accounting estimates that we used are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, either of which may have a material impact on the presentation of our Consolidated Balance Sheets and Statements of Income. We also have other significant accounting policies which involve the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are relevant to understanding our results. For additional information about these policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this report. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information available at the time. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions.
 
Revenue Recognition
 
Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, collectibility of arrangement consideration is reasonably assured, the arrangement fees are fixed or determinable and delivery of the product or service has been completed.
 
21
 
If at the outset of an arrangement, we determine that collectibility is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectibility becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customers acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. If at the outset of an arrangement, we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes estimable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.
 
We have certain information solution offerings that are sold as multiple element arrangements. To account for each of these elements separately, the delivered elements must have stand-alone value to our customer, and there must exist objective and reliable evidence of the fair value for any undelivered elements.
 
Each element of a multiple element arrangement must be considered separately to ensure that appropriate accounting is performed for these deliverables. These considerations include assessing the price at which the element is sold compared to its relative fair value; concluding when the element will be delivered; and determining whether any contingencies exist in the related customer contract that impact the prices paid to us for the services.
Judgments and uncertainties 
 
For certain contracts containing multiple elements, the total arrangement fee is allocated to the undelivered elements based on their relative fair values and to the initial delivered elements using the residual method. If we are unable to unbundle the arrangement into separate units of accounting or fair value is not known for any undelivered elements, arrangement consideration may only be recognized as the final contract element is delivered to our customer.
 
In addition, the determination of certain of our marketing information services and tax management services revenue requires the use of estimates, principally related to transaction volumes in instances where these volumes are reported to us by our clients on a monthly basis in arrears. In these instances, we estimate transaction volumes based on average actual volumes reported in the past. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported.
 
We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates of marketing information services and tax management services revenues reported to us by our customers and actual reported volumes in the past. We monitor actual volumes to ensure that we will continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If we determine that we are unable to make reasonable future estimates, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is obtained. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions, or if our customer arrangements become more complex or include more bundled offerings in the future, we may be required to recognize revenue differently in the future to account for these changes. We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to recognize revenue.
Effects if actual results differ from assumptions 
 
Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets
 
We review goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually (as of September 30) and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance or trends, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. We have ten reporting units comprised of Consumer Information Solutions (which includes Mortgage Solutions and Consumer Financial Marketing Services), Direct Marketing Services, Europe, Latin America, Canada Consumer, North America Personal Solutions, North America Commercial Solutions, The Work Number, Tax Management Services and Talent Management Services. Effective September 30, 2009, the Consumer Information Solutions and Consumer Financial Marketing Services reporting units were aggregated into a single reporting unit to better reflect the economic similarities and customer overlap of the two businesses. Prior to aggregation, we assessed the recoverability of goodwill for Consumer Information Solutions and Consumer Financial Marketing Services separately and determined that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value.
 
22
 
The goodwill balance at December 31, 2009, for our ten reporting units was as follows:
 
 
  In determining the fair value of our reporting units, we used a combination of the income and market approaches to estimate the reporting units business enterprise value.
Judgments and uncertainties
 
Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on estimated future discounted cash flows which require assumptions about short- and long-term revenue growth rates, operating margins for each reporting unit, discount rates, foreign currency exchange rates and estimates of capital charges. The assumptions we use are based on what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings for benchmark companies. We believe the benchmark companies used for each of the reporting units serve as an appropriate input for calculating a fair value for the reporting unit as those benchmark companies have similar risks, participate in similar markets, provide similar services for their customers and compete with us directly. The companies we use as benchmarks are outlined in our Competition discussion included in Item I of this report, including Experian Group Limited, The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, Acxiom Corporation, and Harte-Hanks, Inc. Data for the benchmark companies was obtained from publicly available information. Consumer Information Solutions, our largest reporting unit, as well as Europe and Latin America, have benchmark companies that conduct operations of businesses of a similar type and scope. The Work Number and Tax Management Services share a different set of benchmark companies, notably ADP and Paychex Inc., as the markets they serve are different than those served by our other reporting units. Valuation multiples were selected based on a financial benchmarking analysis that compared the reporting units operating result with the comparable companies information. In addition to these financial considerations, qualitative factors such as variations in growth opportunities and overall risk among the benchmark companies were considered in the ultimate selection of the multiple.
 
The values separately derived from each of the income and market approach valuation techniques were used to develop an overall estimate of a reporting units fair value. We use a consistent approach across all reporting units when considering the weight of the income and market approaches for calculating the fair value of each of our reporting units. This approach relies more heavily on the calculated fair value derived from the income approach, with 70% of the value coming from the income approach. We believe this approach is consistent with that of a market participant in valuing prospective purchase business combinations. The selection and weighting of the various fair value techniques may result in a higher or lower fair value. Judgment is applied in determining the weightings that are most representative of fair value.
 
23
 
We have not made any material changes to the valuation methodology we use to assess goodwill impairment since the date of the last annual impairment test.
 
Growth Assumptions
 
The assumptions for our future cash flows begin with our historical operating performance, the details of which are described in our Managements Discussion & Analysis of operating performance. Additionally, we consider the impact that known economic, industry and market trends will have on our future forecasts, as well as the impact that we expect from planned business initiatives including new product initiatives, client service and retention standards, and cost management programs. At the end of the forecast period, the long-term growth rate we used to determine the terminal value of each reporting unit was generally 3% to 5% based on managements assessment of the minimum expected terminal growth rate of each reporting unit, as well as broader economic considerations such as Gross Domestic Product, or GDP, inflation and the maturity of the markets we serve.
 
As a result of the economic downturn experienced in 2008 and 2009, and the resultant decline in revenue experienced in certain of our business units, in completing our 2009 impairment testing at September 30, 2009, we projected 2010 revenue and cash flow to be lower than 2009 levels for our Direct Marketing Services reporting unit, which continues to be impacted by reduced mailing volumes. We anticipate only modest revenue growth in 2010 for our other reporting units based on planned business initiatives and prevailing trends exhibited by these units, such as continued demand for employment verification services and unemployment claims management in The Work Number and Tax Management Services reporting units. The anticipated revenue growth, however, is partially offset by assumed increases in expenses for a majority of our reporting units which reflect the additional level of investment needed in order to achieve the planned revenue growth. The 2009 long-term forecast used to conduct the impairment testing was significantly lower in the aggregate than the long-term forecast that was developed in 2008. The 2009 long-term forecast does not anticipate meaningful recovery of the global economy until later in 2010. Although we do not expect consolidated revenue or cash flow to improve meaningfully until later in 2010, we continue to take cost containment actions to help maintain operating margins for our reporting units.
 
Discount Rate Assumptions
 
We utilize a weighted average cost of capital, or WACC, in our impairment analysis that makes assumptions about the capital structure that we believe a market participant would make and include a risk premium based on an assessment of risks related to the projected cash flows of each reporting unit. We believe this approach yields a discount rate that is consistent with an implied rate of return that an independent investor or market participant would require for an investment in a company having similar risks and business characteristics to the reporting unit being assessed. To calculate the WACC, the cost of equity and cost of debt are multiplied by the assumed capital structure of the reporting unit as compared to industry trends and relevant benchmark company structures. The cost of equity was computed using the Capital Asset Pricing Model which considers the risk-free interest rate, beta, equity risk premium and specific company risk premium related to a particular reporting unit. The cost of debt was computed using a benchmark rate and the Companys tax rate. For the 2009 annual goodwill impairment evaluation, the discount rates used to develop the estimated fair value of the reporting units ranged from 10% to 17%. Because of assigned market premiums, discount rates are lowest for reporting units, such as Consumer Information Solutions, whose cash flows are expected to be less volatile due to the maturity of the market they serve, their position in that market and other macroeconomic factors. Where there is the greatest volatility of cash flows due to competition, or participation in less stable geographic markets than the United States, such as our Latin America reporting unit, the discount rate selected is in the higher portion of the range as there is more inherent risk in the expected cash flows of that reporting unit.
 
24
 
Estimated Fair Value and Sensitivities
 
The estimated fair value of each reporting unit is derived from the valuation techniques described above, incorporating the related projections and assumptions. An indication of possible impairment occurs when the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is below the carrying value of its equity. The estimated fair value for all reporting units exceeded the carrying value of these units as of September 30, 2009. As a result, no goodwill impairment was recorded.
 
The estimated fair value of the reporting unit is highly sensitive to changes in these projections and assumptions; therefore, in some instances changes in these assumptions could impact whether the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying value. For example, an increase in the discount rate and decline in the cumulative cash flow projections of a reporting unit could cause the fair value of the reporting unit to be below its carrying value. We perform sensitivity analyses around these assumptions in order to assess the reasonableness of the assumptions and the resulting estimated fair values. Ultimately, future potential changes in these assumptions may impact the estimated fair value of a reporting unit and cause the fair value of the reporting unit to be below its carrying value. The excess of fair value over carrying value for the Companys reporting units as of September 30, 2009, ranged from approximately 15% to 300%.
 
We have experienced declines in fair value excess for the majority of our reporting units since the date of our last impairment analysis (December 31, 2008) due to declines in actual and projected financial performance resulting from significant adverse economic conditions. While no impairment was noted in our impairment tests as of September 30, 2009, our reporting units with the smallest fair value excess may be particularly sensitive to further deterioration in economic conditions and could become impaired in future periods if anticipated levels of forecasted earnings are not achieved.
 
Of the reporting units having a significant amount of goodwill, the calculated percentage excess in The Work Number reporting unit, at approximately 15%, is less than our other reporting units, in part, due to the fact that The Work Number was acquired in May 2007 as part of our acquisition of TALX Corporation. The Work Number revenues have been strong historically, having grown at a double-digit compound annual growth rate since the date of acquisition, therefore revenue growth is expected to continue for each of the years used in the preparation of the discounted cash flows. The actual growth rate for The Work Number would have to decline to a compounded rate of 6% growth, with all other factors held constant, for the reporting units fair value to drop below its carrying value. However, in the event that the revenue growth rate was to decline, management would take action to preserve operating margins. If the fair value dropped below carrying value, we would compare the carrying value of the goodwill to the implied fair value of goodwill to determine if a goodwill impairment charge would become necessary.
 
The reporting unit having the lowest absolute dollar excess fair value over carrying value is our Talent Management Services business. This reporting unit has been impacted by reduced hiring activity among key clients and, as a result, we have lowered our revenue growth projections. In addition, we are projecting lower margins due, in part, to our plan to reinvest in the business by expanding our customer portfolio. The decrease in projected revenues coupled with lower projected margins has resulted in a decline in the fair value of this reporting unit. While no impairment was noted in our impairment test as of September 30, 2009, if customer hiring activity does not increase in the near to medium term as forecasted or if other events adversely impact the business drivers and corresponding assumptions used to value this reporting unit, there could be a change in the valuation of our goodwill in future periods and may possibly result in the recognition of an impairment loss.
 
No new indications of impairment existed during the fourth quarter of 2009, thus no impairment testing was updated as of December 31, 2009.
 
  We believe that our estimates are consistent with assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates and assumptions, we may be exposed to an impairment charge that could be material.
Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
 
25
 
Loss Contingencies
 
We are subject to various proceedings, lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of our business. We determine whether to disclose and/or accrue for loss contingencies based on our assessment of whether the potential loss is probable, reasonably possible or remote.
 
  We periodically review claims and legal proceedings and assess whether we have potential financial exposure based on consultation with internal and outside legal counsel and other advisors. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome from any claim or legal proceeding is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheet for the estimated settlement costs. If the likelihood of an adverse outcome is reasonably possible, but not probable, we provide disclosures related to the potential loss contingency. Our assumptions related to loss contingencies are inherently subjective.
Judgments and uncertainties
 
  We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions we use to determine loss contingencies. However, if facts and circumstances change in the future that change our belief regarding assumptions used to determine our estimates, we may be exposed to a loss that could be material.
Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
 
Income Taxes
 
We record deferred income taxes using enacted tax laws and rates for the years in which the taxes are expected to be paid. We periodically assess the likelihood that our net deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income or other tax planning strategies. To the extent that we believe that recovery is not likely, we must establish a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount we estimate will be recoverable.
 
Our income tax provisions are based on assumptions and calculations which will be subject to examination by various tax authorities. We record tax benefits for positions in which we believe are more likely than not of being sustained under such examinations. Regularly, we assess the potential outcome of such examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax accruals.
 
  We consider accounting for income taxes critical because management is required to make significant judgments in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and our future taxable income for purposes of assessing our ability to realize any future benefit from our deferred tax assets. These judgments and estimates are affected by our expectations of future taxable income, mix of earnings among different taxing jurisdictions, and timing of the reversal of deferred tax assets and liabilities.
Judgments and uncertainties
 
We also use our judgment to determine whether it is more likely than not that we will sustain positions that we have taken on tax returns and, if so, the amount of benefit to initially recognize within our financial statements. We regularly review our uncertain tax positions and adjust our unrecognized tax benefits in light of changes in facts and circumstances, such as changes in tax law, interactions with taxing authorities and developments in case law. These adjustments to our unrecognized tax benefits may affect our income tax expense. Settlement of uncertain tax positions may require use of our cash. At December 31, 2009, $26.8 million was recorded for uncertain tax benefits, including interest and penalties, of which it is reasonably possible that up to $6.4 million of our unrecognized tax benefit may change within the next twelve months.
 
26
 
  Although management believes that the judgments and estimates discussed herein are reasonable, actual results could differ, and we may be exposed to increases or decreases in income tax expense that could be material.
Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
 
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
 
We consider accounting for our U.S. and Canadian pension and other postretirement plans critical because management is required to make significant subjective judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, which include discount rates, salary growth, expected return on plan assets, interest cost and mortality and retirement rates. Actuarial valuations are used in determining our benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost.
 
  We believe that the most significant assumptions related to our net periodic benefit cost are (1) the discount rate and (2) the expected return on plan assets.
Judgments and uncertainties
 
We determine our discount rates primarily based on high-quality, fixed- income investments and yield-to-maturity analysis specific to our estimated future benefit payments available as of the measurement date. Discount rates are updated annually on the measurement date to reflect current market conditions. We use a publicly published yield curve to develop our discount rates. The yield curve provides discount rates related to a dedicated high-quality bond portfolio whose cash flows extend beyond the current period, from which we choose a rate matched to the expected benefit payments required for each plan.
 
The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on both our historical returns and forecasted future investment returns by asset class, as provided by our external investment advisor. In setting the long-term expected rate of return, management considers capital markets future expectations and the asset mix of the plan investments. Prior to 2008, the U.S. Pension Plans investment returns were 10.9%, 13.0% and 7.5% over three, five and ten years, respectively. The returns exceeded the S&P 500 returns for similar periods of time primarily due to an asset allocation strategy where large allocations to alternative asset classes (hedge fund of funds, private equity, real estate and real assets) provided consistently higher returns with a low correlation to equity market returns. These returns historically demonstrate a long-term record of producing returns at or above the expected rate of return. However, the dramatic adverse market conditions in 2008 skewed the traditional measures of long-term performance, such as the ten-year average return. The severity of the 2008 losses, approximately negative 20%, makes the historical ten-year average return a less accurate predictor of future return expectations. In 2009, the investment returns were approximately 16%, reflecting a partial recovery of the 2008 losses. Our weighted-average expected rate of return declined from 8.02% in 2009 to approximately 7.75% for 2010 primarily related to the U.S. Retirement Income Plan which declined due to our migration to a lower risk investment strategy, with increased allocation to lower risk/lower return asset classes, as well as the current forecast of expected future returns for our asset classes, which is lower than the prior year.
 
The expected long-term rate of return is calculated on the market-related value of assets. We are allowed to use an asset value that smoothes actual investment gains and losses on pension and postretirement plan assets over a period up to five years. We have elected to smooth asset gains and losses on our pension and postretirement plans over the five year period. The market-related value of our assets was $596.9 million at December 31, 2009. We do not expect our 2010 net periodic benefit cost, which includes the effect of the market-related value of assets, to be materially different than our 2009 cost.
 
Annual differences, if any, between the expected and actual returns are included in the unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss amount. We generally amortize any unrecognized net actuarial gain or loss in net periodic pension expense over the average remaining life expectancy of the participant group since almost all of the participants are inactive. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on changes in the pension benefit obligation and the fair value of plan assets.
 
27
 
  We do not believe there is a reasonable likelihood that there will be a material change in the future estimates or assumptions that are used in our actuarial valuations. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to changes in pension expense that could be material. Adjusting our expected long-term rate of return (8.02% at December 31, 2009) by 50 basis points would change our estimated pension expense in 2010 by approximately $3 million. Adjusting our weighted-average discount rate (6.27% at December 31, 2009) by 50 basis points would change our estimated pension expense in 2010 by approximately $1 million.
Effect if actual results differ from assumptions
 
28
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
 
MANAGEMENTS REPORT ON INTERNAL
CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
 
Management of Equifax is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Equifaxs internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that:
 
 
 
 
 
Internal control over financial reporting includes the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices, and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect all misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
Management assessed the effectiveness of Equifaxs internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Managements assessment included an evaluation of the design of Equifaxs internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of its Board of Directors.
 
Based on this assessment, management determined that, as of December 31, 2009, Equifax maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the Companys internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009.
 
1
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Equifax Inc.:
 
We have audited Equifax Inc.s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control  Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Equifax Inc.s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the companys internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
In our opinion, Equifax Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 of Equifax Inc. and our report dated February 23, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
 
2
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Equifax Inc.:
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Equifax Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Equifax Inc. at December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its  cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Equifax Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 23, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
 
3
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
4
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
 
5
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
6
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
 
 
 
7
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss consists of the following components:
 
 
Comprehensive Income is as follows:
 
 
 
8
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company, we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc.
 
  We collect, organize and manage various types of financial, demographic, employment and marketing information. Our products and services enable businesses to make credit and service decisions, manage their portfolio risk, automate or outsource certain payroll, tax and human resources business processes, and develop marketing strategies concerning consumers and commercial enterprises. We serve customers across a wide range of industries, including the financial services, mortgage, retail, telecommunications, utilities, automotive, brokerage, healthcare and insurance industries, as well as government agencies. We also enable consumers to manage and protect their financial health through a portfolio of products offered directly to consumers. As of December 31, 2009, we operated in the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Peru, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, or U.K., Uruguay, and the United States of America, or U.S. We also maintain support operations in Costa Rica and the Republic of Ireland. We own an equity interest in a consumer credit information company in Russia. During 2009, we formed a joint venture, pending regulatory approval, to provide a broad range of credit data and information solutions in India.
Nature of Operations.
 
We develop, maintain and enhance secured proprietary information databases through the compilation of actual consumer data, including credit, employment, asset, liquidity, net worth and spending activity, and business data, including credit and business demographics, that we obtain from a variety of sources, such as credit granting institutions, public record information (including bankruptcies, liens and judgments), income and tax information primarily from large to mid-sized companies in the U.S., and marketing information from surveys and warranty cards. We process this information utilizing our proprietary information management systems.
 
We acquired Rapid Reporting Verification Company, a provider of IRS tax transcript information and social security number authentication services, on November 2, 2009. On October 27, 2009, we acquired IXI Corporation, a provider of consumer wealth and asset data. Additionally, we acquired TALX Corporation, a leading provider of employment and income verification and human resources business process outsourcing services, on May 15, 2007. The results of these acquisitions are included in our consolidated results subsequent to the acquisition dates.
 
  Our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes, which are prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, include Equifax and all its subsidiaries. We consolidate all majority-owned and controlled subsidiaries as well as variable interest entities in which we are the primary beneficiary. Other parties interests in consolidated entities are reported as noncontrolling interests. We use the equity method of accounting for investments in which we are able to exercise significant influence and use the cost method for all other investments. All significant intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated.
Basis of Consolidation.
 
Our Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented therein. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation, including selling, general and administrative expense of $13.2 million and $5.4 million, respectively, for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, which was reclassified to cost of services and the results of businesses reclassified as a discontinued operation, which is more fully described in Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  We manage our business and report our financial results through the following five reportable segments, which are the same as operating segments:
Segments.
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
USCIS is our largest reportable segment, with 42% of total operating revenue during 2009. Our most significant foreign operations are located in Canada, the U.K. and Brazil.
 
  The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, we make these estimates and assumptions after exercising judgment. We believe that the estimates and assumptions inherent in our Consolidated Financial Statements are reasonable, based upon information available to us at the time they are made including the consideration of events that have occurred up until the point these Statements have been filed. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.
Use of Estimates.
 
  Revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, collectibility of arrangement consideration is reasonably assured, the arrangement fees are fixed or determinable and delivery of the product or service has been completed. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our processing of transactions related to the provision of information services to our customers, in which case revenue is recognized, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met, when the services are provided. A smaller portion of our revenues relate to subscription-based contracts under which a customer pays a preset fee for a predetermined or unlimited number of transactions or services provided during the subscription period, generally one year. Revenue related to subscription-based contracts having a preset number of transactions is recognized as the services are provided, using an effective transaction rate as the actual transactions are completed. Any remaining revenue related to unfulfilled units is not recognized until the end of the related contracts subscription period. Revenue related to subscription-based contracts having an unlimited volume is recognized ratably during the contract term. Revenue is recorded net of sales taxes.
Revenue Recognition and Deferred Revenue.
 
If at the outset of an arrangement, we determine that collectibility is not reasonably assured, revenue is deferred until the earlier of when collectibility becomes probable or the receipt of payment. If there is uncertainty as to the customers acceptance of our deliverables, revenue is not recognized until the earlier of receipt of customer acceptance or expiration of the acceptance period. If at the outset of an arrangement, we determine that the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, revenue is deferred until the arrangement fee becomes estimable, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.
 
The determination of certain of our marketing information services and tax management services revenue requires the use of estimates, principally related to transaction volumes in instances where these volumes are reported to us by our clients on a monthly basis in arrears. In these instances, we estimate transaction volumes based on average actual reported volumes reported in the past. Differences between our estimates and actual final volumes reported are recorded in the period in which actual volumes are reported. We have not experienced significant variances between our estimates and actual reported volumes in the past. We monitor actual volumes to ensure that we will continue to make reasonable estimates in the future. If we determine that we are unable to make reasonable future estimates, revenue may be deferred until actual customer data is obtained. Also within our TALX operating segment, the fees for certain of our tax credits and incentives revenue are based on a portion of the credit delivered to our clients. Revenue for these arrangements is recognized based on the achievement of milestones, upon calculation of the credit, or when the credit is utilized by our client, depending on the provisions of the client contract.
 
We have certain information solution offerings that are sold as multiple element arrangements. The multiple elements may include consumer or commercial information, file updates for certain solutions, services provided by our decisioning technologies personnel, training services, statistical models and other services. To account for each of these elements separately, the delivered elements must have stand-alone value to our customer, and there must exist objective and reliable evidence of the fair value for any undelivered elements. For certain customer contracts, the total arrangement fee is allocated to the undelivered elements based on their fair values and to the initial delivered elements using the residual method. If we are unable to unbundle the arrangement into separate units of accounting, we apply one of the accounting policies described above. This may lead to the arrangement consideration being recognized as the final contract element is delivered to our customer.
 
10
 
 
Many of our multiple element arrangements involve the delivery of services generated by a combination of services provided by one or more of our operating segments. No individual information service impacts the value or usage of other information services included in an arrangement and each service can be sold alone or, in most cases, purchased from another vendor without affecting the quality of use or value to the customer of the other information services included in the arrangement. Some of our products require the development of interfaces or platforms by our decisioning technologies personnel that allow our customers to interact with our proprietary information databases. These development services do not meet the requirement for having stand-alone value, thus any related development fees are deferred when billed and are recognized over the expected period that the customer will benefit from the related decisioning technologies service. Revenue from the provision of statistical models is recognized as the service is provided and accepted, assuming all other revenue recognition criteria are met.
 
We record revenue on a net basis for those sales in which we have in substance acted as an agent or broker in the transaction. The direct costs of set up of a customer are capitalized and amortized as a cost of service during the term of the related customer contract.
 
Deferred revenue consists of amounts billed in excess of revenue recognized on sales of our information services relating generally to the deferral of subscription fees and arrangement consideration from elements not meeting the criteria for having stand-alone value discussed above. Deferred revenues are subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policies.
 
  Cost of services consist primarily of (1) data acquisition and royalty fees; (2) customer service costs, which include: personnel costs to collect, maintain and update our proprietary databases, to develop and maintain software application platforms and to provide consumer and customer call center support; (3) hardware and software expense associated with transaction processing systems; (4) telecommunication and computer network expense; and (5) occupancy costs associated with facilities where these functions are performed by Equifax employees.
Cost of Services.
 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, restructuring costs, corporate costs, fees for professional and consulting services, advertising costs, and other costs of administration.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses.
 
  Advertising costs from continuing operations, which are expensed as incurred, totaled $31.9 million, $28.4 million and $26.8 million during 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Advertising.
 
  We recognize the cost of stock-based payment transactions in the financial statements over the period services are rendered according to the fair value of the stock-based awards issued. All of our stock- based awards, which are stock options and nonvested stock, are classified as equity instruments.
Stock-Based Compensation.
 
  We account for income taxes under the liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as measured by current enacted tax rates. We periodically assess whether it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income to realize our deferred tax assets. We record a valuation allowance, as necessary, to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount of future tax benefit that we estimate is more likely than not to be realized.
Income Taxes.
 
We record tax benefits for positions that we believe are more likely than not of being sustained under audit examinations. Regularly, we assess the potential outcome of such examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax accruals. We adjust our income tax provision during the period in which we determine that the actual results of the examinations may differ from our estimates or when statutory terms expire. Changes in tax laws and rates are reflected in our income tax provision in the period in which they occur.
 
  Our basic earnings per share, or EPS, is calculated as net income divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted EPS is calculated to reflect the potential dilution that would occur if stock options or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised and resulted in additional common shares outstanding. The net income amounts used in both our basic and diluted EPS calculations are the same. A reconciliation of the weighted-average outstanding shares used in the two calculations is as follows:
Earnings Per Share.
 
11
 
 
 
For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, 3.3 million, 2.1 million and 0.6 million stock options, respectively, were anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from this calculation.
 
  We consider all highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
Cash Equivalents.
 
  We do not recognize interest income on our trade accounts receivable. Additionally, we generally do not require collateral from our customers related to our trade accounts receivable.
Trade Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts.
 
The allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses on trade accounts receivable is based on historical write-off experience, an analysis of the aging of outstanding receivables, customer payment patterns and the establishment of specific reserves for customers in an adverse financial condition. We reassess the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts each reporting period. Increases to the allowance for doubtful accounts are recorded as bad debt expense, which are included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Income. Bad debt expense from continuing operations was $6.6 million, $10.0 million and $8.0 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
 
  Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. The cost of additions is capitalized. Property and equipment are depreciated primarily on a straight-line basis over assets estimated useful lives, which are generally three to five years for data processing equipment and capitalized internal-use software and systems costs. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease terms that are reasonably assured. Buildings are depreciated over a forty-year period. Other fixed assets are depreciated over three to seven years. Upon sale or retirement of an asset, the related costs and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any gain or loss is recognized and included in income from operations on the Consolidated Statements of Income, with the classification of any gain or loss dependent on the characteristics of the asset sold or retired.
Long-Lived Assets.
 
Certain internal-use software and system development costs are deferred and capitalized. Accordingly, the specifically identified costs incurred to develop or obtain software which is intended for internal use are not capitalized until the determination is made as to the availability of a technically feasible solution to solve the predefined user and operating performance requirements as established during the preliminary stage of an internal-use software development project. Costs incurred during a software development projects preliminary stage and post-implementation stage are expensed. Application development activities which are eligible for capitalization include software design and configuration, development of interfaces, coding, testing, and installation. Capitalized internal-use software and systems costs are subsequently amortized on a straight-line basis over a three- to ten-year period after project completion and when the related software or system is ready for its intended use.
 
Depreciation and amortization expense from continuing operations related to property and equipment was $65.0 million, $59.5 million and $54.7 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
 
  Pursuant to the terms of the industrial revenue bonds, we transferred title to certain of our fixed assets with costs of $35.7 million and $28.4 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to a local governmental authority in the U.S. to receive a property tax abatement related to economic development. The title to these assets will revert back to us upon retirement or cancellation of the applicable bonds. These fixed assets are still recognized in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets as all risks and rewards remain with the Company.
Industrial Revenue Bonds.
 
12
 
 
  We monitor the status of our long-lived assets in order to determine if conditions exist or events and circumstances indicate that an asset group may be impaired in that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. Significant factors that are considered that could be indicative of an impairment include: changes in business strategy, market conditions or the manner in which an asset group is used; underperformance relative to historical or expected future operating results; and negative industry or economic trends. If potential indicators of impairment exist, we estimate recoverability based on the asset groups ability to generate cash flows greater than the carrying value of the asset group. We estimate the undiscounted future cash flows arising from the use and eventual disposition of the related long-lived asset group. If the carrying value of the long-lived asset group exceeds the estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded based on the amount by which the asset groups carrying amount exceeds its fair value. We utilize estimates of discounted future cash flows to determine the asset groups fair value. During 2008, we recorded a $2.4 million impairment loss, included in depreciation and amortization expense, related to the write-down of certain internal-use software from which we will no longer derive future benefit.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.
 
  Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets of acquired businesses. Goodwill is not amortized. We are required to test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis or on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test as of September 30 each year. In analyzing goodwill for potential impairment, we use a combination of the income and market approaches to estimate the reporting units fair value. Under the income approach, we calculate the fair value of a reporting unit based on estimated future discounted cash flows. The assumptions we use are based on what we believe a hypothetical marketplace participant would use in estimating fair value. Under the market approach, we estimate the fair value based on market multiples of revenue or earnings for benchmark companies. If the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, then no further testing is required. However, if a reporting units fair value were to be less than its carrying value, we would then determine the amount of the impairment charge, if any, which would be the amount that the carrying value of the reporting units goodwill exceeded its implied value.
Goodwill and Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets.
 
13
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
Contractual/territorial rights represent the estimated fair value of rights to operate in certain territories acquired through the purchase of independent credit reporting agencies in the U.S. and Canada. Our contractual/territorial rights are perpetual in nature and, therefore, the useful lives are considered indefinite. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. We are required to test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or whenever events and circumstances indicate that there may be an impairment of the asset value. Our annual impairment test date is September 30. We perform the impairment test for our indefinite-lived intangible assets by comparing the assets fair value to its carrying value. We estimate the fair value based on projected discounted future cash flows. An impairment charge is recognized if the assets estimated fair value is less than its carrying value.
 
We completed our annual impairment testing for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, and we determined that there was no impairment in any of these years.
 
  Purchased intangible assets represent the estimated fair value of acquired intangible assets used in our business. Purchased data files represent the estimated fair value of consumer credit files acquired primarily through the purchase of independent credit reporting agencies in the U.S. and Canada. We expense the cost of modifying and updating credit files in the period such costs are incurred. We amortize purchased data files, which primarily consist of acquired credit files, on a straight-line basis. Primarily all of our other purchased intangible assets are also amortized on a straight-line basis.
Purchased Intangible Assets.
 
 
  Other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheets primarily represents our investment in unconsolidated affiliates, assets related to life insurance policies covering certain officers of the Company, employee benefit trust assets, a statutorily-required tax deposit and data purchases, net of related amortization.
Other Assets.
 
  We sponsor various pension and defined contribution plans. We also maintain certain healthcare and life insurance benefit plans for eligible retired U.S. employees. Benefits under the pension and other postretirement benefit plans are generally based on age at retirement and years of service and for some pension plans, benefits are also based on the employees annual earnings. The net periodic cost of our pension and other postretirement plans is determined using several actuarial assumptions, the most significant of which are the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets. Our Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect the funded status of the pension and postretirement plans.
Benefit Plans.
 
  The functional currency of each of our foreign subsidiaries is that subsidiarys local currency. We translate the assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries at the year-end rate of exchange and revenue and expenses at the monthly average rates during the year. We record the resulting translation adjustment in other comprehensive income, a component of shareholders equity. We also record gains and losses resulting from the translation of intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature in accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Foreign Currency Translation.
 
  Our financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes receivable, accounts payable and short-term and long-term debt. The carrying amounts of these items, other than long-term debt, approximate their fair market values due to the short-term nature of these instruments. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt is determined using quoted market prices for publicly traded instruments, and for non-publicly traded instruments through valuation techniques depending on the specific characteristics of the debt instrument, taking into account credit risk. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt was $1.02 billion and $597.7 million, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1.00 billion and $767.1 million, respectively.
Financial Instruments.
 
14
 
 
  Although derivative financial instruments are not utilized for speculative purposes or as the Companys primary risk management tool, derivatives have been used as a risk management tool to hedge the Companys exposure to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We have used interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with our fixed and floating-rate borrowings. Forward contracts on various foreign currencies have been used to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk of certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. We recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. Derivative valuations reflect the value of the instrument including the value associated with counterparty risk.
Derivatives and Hedging Activities.
 
  In conjunction with our fourth quarter 2009 sale of five-year Senior Notes, we entered into five-year interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, which convert the debts fixed interest rate to a variable rate. These swaps involve the receipt of fixed rate amounts for floating interest rate payments over the life of the swaps without exchange of the underlying principal amount. Changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps offset changes in the fair value of the fixed-rate Senior Notes they hedge due to changes in the designated benchmark interest rate and are recorded in interest expense. The fair value liability of these interest rate swaps at December 31, 2009, was $3.3 million and was recorded in other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Fair Value Hedges.
 
  Changes in the fair value of highly effective derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are initially recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and are reclassified into the line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income in which the hedged item is recorded in the same period the hedged item impacts earnings. Any ineffective portion is recorded in current period earnings.
Cash Flow Hedges.
 
Our inventory of cash flow hedges at December 31, 2009, consisted of an interest rate swap that expires February 2010 and forward purchase contracts, with an aggregate notional amount of 0.8 million euros, to hedge the exposure of certain firm commitments of our U.K. subsidiary that are denominated in euros. The fair value liability of our unsettled cash flow hedges was not material at December 31, 2009.
 
We entered into interest rate lock agreements in conjunction with our 2007 sale of 6.3% senior notes due 2017 and 7.0% senior notes due 2037. These cash flow hedges were settled on June 25 and June 26, 2007, the respective dates the ten- and thirty-year senior notes were sold, requiring payment of $1.9 million and $3.0 million, respectively. The impact of these settlements has been recorded in other comprehensive income and is amortized with interest expense over the respective terms of the senior notes.
 
  Fair value is determined based on the assumptions marketplace participants use in pricing the asset or liability. We use a three level fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in valuation techniques between observable inputs that reflect quoted prices in active markets, inputs other than quoted prices with observable market data and unobservable data (e.g., a companys own data). The adoption of fair value guidance for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities on January 1, 2009 did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Fair Value Measurements.
 
The following table presents liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
   In December 2007, the FASB issued guidance which established accounting and reporting standards for noncontrolling interests and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. This guidance was effective prospectively, except for certain retrospective disclosure requirements. Our adoption of this guidance on January 1, 2009, did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.
Noncontrolling Interests.
 
  In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance requiring entities to disclose more information about pension asset valuations, investment allocation decisions, and major categories of plan assets. These disclosure requirements are effective for years ending after December 15, 2009. Our adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Fair Value Disclosures.
 
In September 2009, the FASB issued guidance regarding use of the net asset value per share provided by an investee to estimate the fair value of an alternative investment when the fair value is not readily determinable. This guidance affects certain investments that are held by our pension plans and is effective for interim and annual periods ending after December 15, 2009. Our adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
In January 2010, the FASB issued guidance requiring additional fair value disclosures for significant transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy and gross presentation of items within the Level 3 reconciliation. This guidance also clarifies that entities need to disclose fair value information for each class of asset and liability measured at fair value and that valuation techniques need to be provided for all non-market observable measurements. Our adoption of this guidance on January 1, 2010, is not expected to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  In May 2009, the FASB issued guidance which established standards for accounting and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date, but before financial statements are issued. This guidance was effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009. Our adoption did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. We evaluated subsequent events occurring through February 23, 2010, which is the date our financial statements were issued.
Subsequent Events.
 
  In June 2009, the FASB amended the consolidation guidance for variable-interest entities and expanded disclosure requirements. The new guidance requires an enterprise to perform an analysis to determine whether the enterprises variable interests give it a controlling financial interest in the variable interest entity. The adoption of this guidance on January 1, 2010, is not expected to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Variable Interest Entities.
 
  In October 2009, the FASB issued revenue guidance for multiple-deliverable arrangements which addresses how to separate deliverables and how to measure and allocate arrangement consideration. This guidance requires vendors to develop the best estimate of selling price for each deliverable and to allocate arrangement consideration using this selling price. The guidance is effective prospectively for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in annual periods beginning after June 15, 2010. We are currently evaluating the impact of adoption on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables.
 
2.  ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS
 
  On December 23, 2009, as a part of our long-term growth strategy of expanding into emerging markets, we formed a joint venture, Equifax Credit Information Services Private Limited, or ECIS, to provide a broad range of credit data and information solutions in India. This joint venture is pending regulatory approval. We paid cash consideration of $5.2 million for our 49 percent equity interest in ECIS.
2009 Acquisitions and Investments.
 
On November 2, 2009, to further enhance our income and identity verification service offerings, we acquired Rapid Reporting Verification Company, or Rapid, a provider of IRS tax transcript information and social security number authentication services, for $72.5 million. The results of this acquisition have been included in our TALX operating segment subsequent to the acquisition.
 
16
 
 
On October 27, 2009, we acquired IXI Corporation, or IXI, a provider of consumer wealth and asset data, for $124.0 million. This acquisition enables us to offer more differentiated and in-depth consumer income, wealth and other data to help our clients improve their marketing, collections, portfolio management and customer management efforts across different product segments. The results of this acquisition have been included in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions operating segment subsequent to the acquisition date.
 
We financed these purchases through borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility, which were subsequently refinanced through the issuance in November 2009 of our 4.45%, five-year unsecured Senior Notes. The 4.45% Senior Notes are further described in Note 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report.
 
On August 12, 2009, in order to enhance our Mortgage Solutions business market share, we acquired certain assets and specified liabilities of a small mortgage credit reporting reseller for cash consideration of $3.8 million. The results of this acquisition have been included in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment subsequent to the acquisition date.
 
  To further enhance our market share and grow our credit data business, during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008, we completed nine acquisitions and investments in a number of small businesses totaling $27.4 million, net of cash acquired. Six of the transactions were in our International segment, two within our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment and one within our TALX segment. We recorded a $6.0 million liability at December 31, 2009, with a corresponding adjustment to goodwill, for the contingent earn-out payment associated with the acquired company within the TALX segment. The earn-out payment was measured on the completion of 2009 revenue targets and will be paid in 2010.
2008 Acquisitions and Investments.
 
On June 30, 2008, as a part of our long-term growth strategy of entering new geographies, we acquired a 28 percent equity interest in Global Payments Credit Services LLC, or GPCS, a credit information company in Russia, for cash consideration of $4.4 million, which is now doing business as Equifax Credit Services, LLC in Russia. Under our shareholders agreement, we have the option to acquire up to an additional 22 percent interest in GPCS between 2011 and 2013 for cash consideration based on a formula for determining equity value of the business and the assumption of certain debt, subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.
 
17
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
  On October 19, 2007, in order to continue to grow our credit data business, our Peruvian subsidiary, which is reported in our International operating segment, purchased 100% of the stock of a credit reporting business located in Peru for cash consideration of $8.0 million.
2007 Acquisitions.
 
On May 15, 2007, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of TALX, a leading provider of employment and income verification and human resources business process outsourcing services. The acquisition aligned with our long-term growth strategy of expanding into new markets with unique data. Under the terms of the transaction, we issued 20.6 million shares of Equifax common stock from treasury, issued 1.9 million fully-vested options to purchase Equifax common stock and paid approximately $288.1 million in cash, net of cash acquired. The value of the shares issued was $844.2 million determined using an average share price over a reasonable period of time before and after the acquisition terms were announced. The fair value of options issued was $61.1 million determined using the Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model. The fair value of the vested options is included in the total purchase price. We also assumed TALXs outstanding debt, which had a fair value totaling $177.6 million at May 15, 2007. We financed the cash portion of the acquisition cost and $96.6 million outstanding on the TALX revolving credit facility at the date of acquisition initially with borrowings under our $850.0 million senior unsecured credit facility, which we refer to as the Senior Credit Facility, and subsequently refinanced this debt in the second quarter of 2007 with ten- and thirty-year notes. The results of TALXs operations are included in our Consolidated Financial Statements beginning on May 15, 2007. TALX is reported as a separate operating segment. Subsequent to the date of the acquisition in 2007, we paid $4.1 million to the former owners of a company purchased by TALX pursuant to an earn-out agreement.
 
We also acquired the assets of three mortgage solutions affiliates for cash paid of $3.8 million during the first quarter of 2007.
 
  The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the acquisition dates. These 2009 allocations are considered final, except for the resolution of certain contingencies all of which existed at the acquisition date, primarily related to sales tax exposures and income tax accounts, which will be resolved when final returns are filed related to the acquired entities. Estimates for these items have been included in the purchase price allocations and will be finalized prior to the one year anniversary date of the acquisitions.
Purchase Price Allocation.
 
 
 
 
The primary reasons the purchase price of certain of these acquisitions exceeded the fair value of the net assets acquired, which resulted in the recognition of goodwill, were expanded growth opportunities from new or enhanced product offerings, cost savings from the elimination of duplicative activities, and the acquisition of intellectual property and workforce that are not recognized as assets apart from goodwill.
 
18
 
 
Since the dates of acquisition, IXI contributed approximately $6 million of revenue and Rapid contributed approximately $5 million of revenue, which are included in the Companys Consolidated Statement of Income. The impact of the 2009 and 2008 acquisitions would not have significantly changed our Consolidated Statements of Income if they had occurred at the beginning of the earliest year presented as revenue, consolidated net income, net income attributable to Equifax and diluted earnings per share would not have changed by more than 3%.
 
3.  GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
  Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired in a business combination. As discussed in Note 1, goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. We perform our annual goodwill impairment tests as of September 30 each year. The fair value estimates for our reporting units were determined using a combination of the income and market approaches in accordance with the Companys methodology. Our annual impairment tests as of September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 resulted in no impairment of goodwill. We have undertaken reasonable efforts to determine that we do not have an accumulated impairment loss.
Goodwill.
 
In conjunction with the finalization of the TALX purchase price allocation in 2008, we reallocated goodwill to reporting units expected to benefit from revenue synergies of the combined company. Changes in the amount of goodwill for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, are as follows:
 
 
19
 
 
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of contractual/territorial rights representing the estimated fair value of rights to operate in certain territories acquired through the purchase of independent credit reporting agencies in the U.S. and Canada. Our contractual/territorial rights are perpetual in nature and, therefore, the useful lives are considered indefinite. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. As discussed in Note 1, we are required to test indefinite- lived intangible assets for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that there may be an impairment of the asset value. We perform our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test as of September 30 each year. Our annual impairment tests as of September 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007 resulted in no impairment of our indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our contractual/territorial rights carrying amounts did not change materially during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets.
 
  Purchased intangible assets net, recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, are as follows:
Purchased Intangible Assets.
 
 
Amortization expense from continuing operations related to purchased intangible assets was $80.3 million, $80.2 million and $58.8 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
Estimated future amortization expense from continuing operations related to definite-lived purchased intangible assets at December 31, 2009 is as follows:
 
 
20
 
 
4.  DEBT
 
Debt outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows:
 
 
Scheduled future maturities of debt at December 31, 2009, are as follows:
 
 
  We are party to an $850.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Senior Credit Facility, with a group of financial institutions. Borrowings may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchase programs. The Senior Credit Facility is scheduled to expire in July 2011. Availability of the Senior Credit Facility for borrowings is reduced by the outstanding face amount of any letters of credit issued under the facility and, pursuant to our existing Board of Directors authorization, by the outstanding principal amount of our commercial paper, or CP, notes.
Senior Credit Facility.
 
Under our Amended Credit Agreement, we must comply with various financial and non-financial covenants. The financial covenants require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio, defined as consolidated funded debt divided by consolidated EBITDA (as set forth in the Amended Credit Agreement) for the preceding four quarters, of not more than 3.5 to 1.0. Compliance with this financial covenant is tested quarterly. The non-financial covenants include limitations on liens, cross defaults, subsidiary debt, mergers, liquidations, asset dispositions and acquisitions. As of December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with our covenants under the Amended Credit Agreement. Our borrowings under this facility, which have not been guaranteed by any of our subsidiaries, are unsecured and will rank on parity in right of payment with all of our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness from time to time outstanding.
 
At December 31, 2009, interest was payable on borrowings under the existing credit facility at the base rate or London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus a specified margin. The annual facility fee, which we pay regardless of borrowings, and interest rate are subject to adjustment based on our debt ratings. As of December 31, 2009, $707.5 million was available for borrowings and there were outstanding borrowings of $4.8 million under the Senior Credit Facility, which is included in long-term debt on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
 
While the underlying final maturity date of this facility is July 2011, it is structured to provide borrowings under short-term loans. Since these borrowings primarily have a maturity of thirty days, the borrowings and repayments are presented on a net basis within the financing activities portion of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as net (repayments) borrowings under long-term revolving credit facilities.
 
21
 
 
  Our $850.0 million CP program has been established through the private placement of CP notes from time-to-time, in which borrowings bear interest at either a variable rate (based on LIBOR or other benchmarks) or a fixed rate, with the applicable rate and margin. Maturities of CP can range from overnight to 397 days. Since the CP program is backstopped by our Senior Credit Facility, the amount of CP which may be issued under the program is reduced by the outstanding face amount of any letters of credit issued under the facility and, pursuant to our existing Board of Directors authorization, by the outstanding borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. At December 31, 2009, $135.0 million in CP notes were outstanding, at a weighted-average fixed interest rate of 0.4% per annum, all with maturities of less than 90 days.
CP Program.
 
  Upon our July 26, 2007 acquisition of our Atlanta, Georgia, data center, we assumed a $12.5 million mortgage obligation from the prior owner of the building. The mortgage obligation has a fixed rate of interest of 4.25% per annum and is payable in annual installments until March 1, 2012.
4.25% Notes.
 
  At the closing of the TALX acquisition in May 2007, we assumed $75.0 million in 7.34% Senior Guaranteed Notes, or TALX Notes, privately placed by TALX with several institutional investors in May 2006 and $96.6 million outstanding under TALXs revolving credit facility. Subsequent to the TALX acquisition, we repaid and terminated the TALX revolving credit facility with borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. We are required to repay the principal amount of the TALX Notes in five equal annual installments commencing on May 25, 2010 with a final maturity date of May 25, 2014. We may prepay the TALX Notes subject to certain restrictions and the payment of a make-whole amount. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to use proceeds of certain asset dispositions to prepay a portion of the TALX Notes. Interest on the TALX Notes is payable semi-annually until the principal becomes due and payable. We identified a fair value adjustment related to the TALX Notes in applying purchase accounting; this amount will be amortized against interest expense over the remainder of the term of the TALX Notes. At December 31, 2009, the remaining balance of this adjustment is $2.8 million and is included in long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
TALX Debt.
 
  On November 4, 2009, we issued $275.0 million principal amount of 4.45%, five-year senior notes in an underwritten public offering. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on December 1 and June 1 of each year. We used the net proceeds from the sale of the senior notes to repay outstanding borrowings under our CP program, a portion of which was used to finance our fourth quarter 2009 acquisitions. The senior notes are unsecured and rank equally with all of our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. In conjunction with the senior notes, we entered into five-year interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, which convert the fixed interest rate to a variable rate. The long-term debt fair value adjustment related to these interest rate swaps was a reduction of $3.3 million at December 31, 2009.
4.45% Senior Notes.
 
  On June 28, 2007, we issued $300.0 million principal amount of 6.3%, ten-year senior notes and $250.0 million principal amount of 7.0%, thirty-year senior notes in underwritten public offerings. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on January 1 and July 1 of each year. The net proceeds of the financing were used to repay short-term indebtedness, a substantial portion of which was incurred in connection with our acquisition of TALX. We must comply with various non-financial covenants, including certain limitations on liens, additional debt and mortgages, mergers, asset dispositions and sale-leaseback arrangements. The senior notes are unsecured and rank equally with all of our other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. During 2009 and 2008, we purchased $7.5 million and $20.0 million, respectively, principal amount of the ten-year senior notes for $6.3 million and $14.3 million, respectively.
6.3% and 7.0% Senior Notes.
 
In conjunction with the sale of the senior notes, we entered into cash flow hedges on $200.0 million and $250.0 million notional amount of ten-year and thirty-year Treasury notes, respectively. These hedges were settled on June 25 and June 26, 2007, the respective dates on which the Notes were sold, requiring payment of $1.9 million and $3.0 million, respectively. The impact of these settlements has been recorded in other comprehensive income and will be amortized with interest expense over the respective terms of the Notes.
 
  During 2009, we purchased $25.0 million principal amount of the debentures for $25.1 million.
6.9% Debentures.
 
22
 
  We are a party to a credit agreement with a Canadian financial institution that provides for a C$20.0 million (denominated in Canadian dollars), 364-day revolving credit agreement. We reduced the borrowing limit from C$40.0 million to C$20.0 million during the second quarter of 2009 and extended the maturity date until June 2010. As of December 31, 2009, there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility.
Canadian Credit Facility.
 
Cash paid for interest, net of capitalized interest, was $56.7 million, $71.7 million and $42.6 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
5.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
  On February 27, 2009, we notified the lessor of our headquarters building in Atlanta, Georgia, that we intend to exercise our purchase option in accordance with the lease terms. Under the terms of the $29.0 million synthetic lease for this facility, which commenced in 1998 and expires in March 2010, we guaranteed the residual value of the building at the end of the lease. We were responsible for any shortfall of sales proceeds, up to a maximum amount of $23.2 million, which equaled 80% of the value of the property at the beginning of the lease term. A residual guarantee value of $1.9 million was recorded related to this contingency.
Leases.
 
By making notification of our intent to purchase, we committed to purchase the building for $29.0 million on February 26, 2010. The exercise of our purchase option caused us to account for this lease obligation as a capital lease. We have recorded the building and the related obligation on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009, based on the difference between the purchase price and our residual guarantee of fair value, or $27.1 million.
 
Our operating leases principally involve office space and office equipment. Rental expense from continuing operations for operating leases, which is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term, was $20.9 million, $20.6 million and $17.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our headquarters building ground lease has purchase options exercisable beginning in 2019, renewal options exercisable in 2048 and escalation clauses that began in 2009. Expected future minimum payment obligations for non-cancelable operating leases exceeding one year are as follows as of December 31, 2009:
 
 
One of our sublease agreements was amended during 2009. As a result, the amount of sublease income we expect to receive is not material at December 31, 2009. Expected sublease income is not reflected as a reduction in the total minimum rental obligations under operating leases in the table above.
 
  We have separate agreements with IBM, Acxiom, TCS and others to outsource portions of our computer data processing operations, applications development, maintenance and related functions and to provide certain other administrative and operational services. The agreements expire between 2010 and 2014. The estimated aggregate minimum contractual obligation remaining under these agreements is approximately $175 million as of December 31, 2009, with no future years minimum contractual obligation expected to exceed approximately $55 million. Annual payment obligations in regard to these agreements vary due to factors such as the volume of data processed; changes in our servicing needs as a result of new product offerings, acquisitions or divestitures; the introduction of significant new technologies; foreign currency; or the general rate of inflation. In certain circumstances (e.g., a change in control or for our convenience), we may terminate these data processing and outsourcing agreements, and, in doing so, certain of these agreements require us to pay a significant penalty.
Data Processing, Outsourcing Services and Other Agreements.
 
 
23
 
During 2009, we amended our data processing outsourcing agreement with IBM. The amended agreement extends the term six months through December 2013 and allows for a reduction in the scope of services provided by IBM, as well as financial savings to the Company. Under this agreement (which covers our operations in North America, Europe, Brazil and Chile), we have outsourced our mainframe and midrange operations, help desk service and desktop support functions, and the operation of our voice and data networks. The scope of such services varies by location. The estimated future minimum contractual obligation under the revised agreement is approximately $120 million for the remaining term, with no individual years minimum expected to exceed approximately $31 million. We may terminate certain portions of this agreement without penalty in the event that IBM is in material breach of the terms of the agreement. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we paid $87.3 million, $124.0 million and $115.0 million, respectively, for these services.
 
  We have an agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, and certain of its affiliates, collectively CSC, under which CSC-owned credit reporting agencies utilize our computerized credit database services. CSC retains ownership of its credit files and the revenues generated by its credit reporting activities. We receive a processing fee for maintaining the database and for each report supplied. The agreement will expire on July 31, 2018 and is renewable at the option of CSC for successive ten-year periods. The agreement provides us with an option to purchase CSCs credit reporting business if it does not elect to renew the agreement or if there is a change in control of CSC while the agreement is in effect. Under the agreement CSC also has an option, exercisable at any time, to sell its credit reporting business to us. The option expires in 2013. The option exercise price will be determined by a third-party appraisal process and would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the option. We estimate that if the option were exercised at December 31, 2009, the price range would approximate $600 million to $675 million. This estimate is based solely on our internal analysis of the value of the business, current market conditions and other factors, all of which are subject to constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be materially higher or lower than the estimated amount.
Agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation.
 
  We have entered into change in control severance agreements with certain key executives. The agreements provide for, among other things, certain payments and benefits in the event of a qualifying termination of employment (i.e., termination of employment by the executive for good reason or termination of employment by the Company without cause, each as defined in the agreements) following a change in control of the Company. In the event of a qualifying termination, the executive will become entitled to continuation of group health, dental, vision, life, disability, 401(k) and similar benefits for three years, as well as a lump sum severance payment, all of which differs by executive.
Change in Control Agreements.
 
 
24
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The change in control agreements have a five-year term and automatically renew for another five years unless we elect not to renew the agreements. Change in control events potentially triggering benefits under the agreements would occur, subject to certain exceptions, if (1) any person acquires 20% or more of our voting stock; (2) upon a merger or other business combination, our shareholders receive less than two-thirds of the common stock and combined voting power of the new company; (3) we sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; or (4) we liquidate or dissolve.
 
If these change in control agreements had been triggered as of December 31, 2009, payments of approximately $54.6 million would have been made (excluding tax gross-up amounts of $12.8 million). Under the Companys existing director and employee stock benefit plans, a change in control generally would result in the immediate vesting of all outstanding stock options and satisfaction of the restrictions on any outstanding nonvested stock awards.
 
  We will from time to time issue standby letters of credit, performance bonds or other guarantees in the normal course of business. The aggregate notional amount of all performance bonds and standby letters of credit is not material at December 31, 2009, and all have a remaining maturity of one year or less. The maximum potential future payments we could be required to make under the guarantees is not material at December 31, 2009.
Guarantees.
 
  We are the lessee under many real estate leases. It is common in these commercial lease transactions for us, as the lessee, to agree to indemnify the lessor and other related third parties for tort, environmental and other liabilities that arise out of or relate to our use or occupancy of the leased premises. This type of indemnity would typically make us responsible to indemnified parties for liabilities arising out of the conduct of, among others, contractors, licensees and invitees at or in connection with the use or occupancy of the leased premises. This indemnity often extends to related liabilities arising from the negligence of the indemnified parties, but usually excludes any liabilities caused by either their sole or gross negligence and their willful misconduct.
General Indemnifications.
 
Certain of our credit agreements include provisions which require us to make payments to preserve an expected economic return to the lenders if that economic return is diminished due to certain changes in law or regulations. In certain of these credit agreements, we also bear the risk of certain changes in tax laws that would subject payments to non-U.S. lenders to withholding taxes.
 
In conjunction with certain transactions, such as sales or purchases of operating assets or services in the ordinary course of business, or the disposition of certain assets or businesses, we sometimes provide routine indemnifications, the terms of which range in duration and sometimes are not limited.
 
The Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers. Under these agreements, the Company has agreed to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers and to advance expenses incurred by such individuals in connection with the related legal proceedings. The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations.
 
We cannot reasonably estimate our potential future payments under the indemnities and related provisions described above because we cannot predict when and under what circumstances these provisions may be triggered. We have no accrual related to indemnifications on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008.
 
  The ability of some of our subsidiaries and associated companies to transfer funds to us is limited, in some cases, by certain restrictions imposed by foreign governments, which do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially limit our ability to service our indebtedness, meet our current obligations or pay dividends.
Subsidiary Dividend and Fund Transfer Limitations.
 
  We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We periodically assess our exposure related to these matters based on the information which is available. We have recorded accruals in our Consolidated Financial Statements for those matters in which it is probable that we have incurred a loss and the amount of the loss, or range of loss, can be reasonably estimated.
Contingencies.
 
 
25
 
During 2006, we recorded a $4.0 million, pretax, loss contingency ($2.5 million, net of tax) associated with certain litigation matters within our USCIS operating segment on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. In 2009, we entered into a preliminary settlement which, net of insurance, required less than the full amount reserved. We also reached a settlement on another class action litigation matter within our USCIS operating segment during 2009 and recorded a loss contingency in selling, general and administrative expense on our Consolidated Balance Sheet for the estimated amount of our liability. The combined impact of these matters was a net reversal of $0.8 million of expense in 2009. The remaining accrual related to these matters at December 31, 2009, was not material. The liability at December 31, 2008, was $4.0 million.
 
For other legal proceedings, claims and litigation, we have recorded loss contingencies that are immaterial, or we cannot reasonably estimate the potential loss because of uncertainties about the outcome of the matter and the amount of the loss or range of loss. We also accrue for unpaid legal fees for services performed to date. Although the final outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty, any possible adverse outcome arising from these matters is not expected to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, either individually or in the aggregate. However, our evaluation of the likely impact of these matters may change in the future.
 
  In 2003, the Canada Revenue Agency, or CRA, issued Notices of Reassessment asserting that Acrofax, Inc., our wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary, is liable for additional tax for the 1995 through 2000 tax years, related to certain intercompany capital contributions and loans. The additional tax sought by the CRA for these periods ranges, based on alternative theories, from $8.2 million (8.5 million in Canadian dollars) to $18.2 million (19.0 million in Canadian dollars) plus interest and penalties. Subsequently in 2003, we made a statutorily-required deposit for a portion of the claim. We intend to vigorously contest these reassessments and do not believe we have violated any statutory provision or rule. While we believe our potential exposure is less than the asserted claims and not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements, if the final outcome of this matter was unfavorable to us, an additional claim may be filed by the local province. The likelihood and potential amount of such claim is unknown at this time. We cannot predict when this tax matter will be resolved.
Tax Matters.
 
6.  INCOME TAXES
 
We record deferred income taxes using enacted tax laws and rates for the years in which the taxes are expected to be paid. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on the differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities. For additional information about our income tax policy, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
The provision for income taxes from continuing operations consisted of the following:
 
 
Domestic and foreign income from continuing operations before income taxes was as follows:
 
 
26
 
 
The provision for income taxes was reconciled with the U.S. federal statutory rate, as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Components of the deferred income tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were as follows:
 
 
Our deferred income tax assets, included in other current assets, and liabilities at December 31, 2009 and 2008, are included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:
 
 
27
 
 
We record deferred income taxes on the temporary differences of our foreign subsidiaries and branches, except for the temporary differences related to undistributed earnings of subsidiaries which we consider indefinitely invested. We have indefinitely invested $85.7 million attributable to pre-2004 undistributed earnings of our Canadian and Chilean subsidiaries. If the pre-2004 earnings were not considered indefinitely invested, $6.4 million of deferred U.S. income taxes would have been provided. Such taxes, if ultimately paid, may be recoverable as U.S. foreign tax credits.
 
As of December 31, 2009, we had a deferred tax asset of $27.4 million related to accumulated foreign currency translation losses for foreign locations, excluding adjustments for pre-2004 Canadian and Chilean earnings. A full valuation allowance, included in accumulated other comprehensive loss, has been provided due to uncertainty of future realization of this deferred tax asset.
 
At December 31, 2009, we had U.S. federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $73.9 million which will expire at various times between 2012 and 2029. We also had foreign net operating loss carryforwards totaling $97.7 million of which $44.4 million will expire between 2013 and 2017 and the remaining $53.3 million will carryforward indefinitely. U.S. federal and state capital loss carryforwards total $1.6 million at December 31, 2009, all of which will expire by 2011. Foreign capital loss carryforwards of $21.0 million may be carried forward indefinitely. Additionally, we had foreign tax credit carryforwards of $20.8 million, of which $3.2 million will begin to expire between 2010 and 2015 and the remaining $17.6 million will be available to be utilized upon repatriation of foreign earnings. We also had state credit carryforwards of $1.5 million which will begin expiring in 2017. Tax-effected state and foreign net operating losses and capital losses of $31.7 million have been fully reserved in the deferred tax asset valuation allowance.
 
Cash paid for income taxes, net of amounts refunded, was $103.2 million, $128.7 million and $139.9 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
We recognize interest and penalties accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits in the provision for income taxes on our Consolidated Statements of Income.
 
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
 
We recorded liabilities of $26.8 million and $22.3 million for unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which included interest and penalties of $7.4 million and $6.5 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the total amount of unrecognized benefits that, if recognized, would have affected the effective tax rate was $20.5 million and $17.8 million, respectively, which included interest and penalties of $5.7 million and $5.0 million, respectively. The accruals for potential interest and penalties during 2009 and 2008 were not material.
 
Equifax and its subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal, state and international income taxes. We are generally no longer subject to federal, state or international income tax examinations by tax authorities for years before 2003, with few exceptions including those discussed below for Canada and the U.K. In Canada, we are under audit by the Canada Revenue Agency for the 1995 through 2002 tax years (see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). For the U.K., tax years after 1999 are open for examination. Due to the potential for resolution of state and foreign examinations, and the expiration of various statutes of limitations, it is reasonably possible that Equifaxs gross unrecognized tax benefit balance may change within the next twelve months by a range of zero to $6.4 million, related primarily to issues involving U.K. operations.
 
 
28
 
7.  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
 
We have one active share-based award plan, the 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan which was approved by our shareholders in 2008, that provides our directors, officers and certain employees with stock options and nonvested stock. The plan is described below. We expect to issue common shares held by treasury stock upon the exercise of stock options or once nonvested shares vest. Total stock-based compensation expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was as follows:
 
 
The total income tax benefit recognized for stock-based compensation expense was $6.9 million, $7.1 million and $6.3 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
Benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost are reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow. This requirement reduced operating cash flows and increased financing cash flows by $1.3 million, $2.1 million and $7.0 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
  The 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan provides that qualified and nonqualified stock options may be granted to officers and other employees. In conjunction with our acquisition of TALX, we assumed options outstanding under the legacy TALX stock option plan, which was approved by TALX shareholders. In addition, stock options remain outstanding under three shareholder-approved plans and three non-shareholder-approved plans from which no new grants may be made. The 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan requires that stock options be granted at exercise prices not less than market value on the date of grant. Generally, stock options are subject to graded vesting for periods of up to three years based on service, with 33% vesting for each year of completed service, and expire ten years from the grant date.
Stock Options.
 
We use the binomial model to calculate the fair value of stock options granted on or after January 1, 2006. The binomial model incorporates assumptions regarding anticipated employee exercise behavior, expected stock price volatility, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. Anticipated employee exercise behavior and expected post-vesting cancellations over the contractual term used in the binomial model were primarily based on historical exercise patterns. These historical exercise patterns indicated there was not significantly different exercise behavior between employee groups. For our expected stock price volatility assumption, we weighted historical volatility and implied volatility. We used daily observations for historical volatility, while our implied volatility assumption was based on actively traded options related to our common stock. The expected term is derived from the binomial model, based on assumptions incorporated into the binomial model as described above.
 
The fair value for stock options granted during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was estimated at the date of grant, using the binomial model with the following weighted-average assumptions:
 
 
The following table summarizes changes in outstanding stock options during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, as well as stock options that are vested and expected to vest and stock options exercisable at December 31, 2009:
 
29
 
 
The aggregate intrinsic value amounts in the table above represent the difference between the closing price of Equifaxs common stock on December 31, 2009 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money stock options as of the same date. This represents the amount that would have been received by the stock option holders if they had all exercised their stock options on December 31, 2009. In future periods, this amount will change depending on fluctuations in Equifaxs stock price. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $5.1 million, $14.4 million and $48.6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2009, our total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options was $6.3 million with a weighted- average recognition period of 1.5 years.
 
The following table summarizes changes in outstanding options and the related weighted-average exercise price per share for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007:
 
 
  Our 2008 Omnibus Incentive Plan also provides for awards of nonvested shares of our common stock that can be granted to executive officers, employees and directors. Nonvested stock awards are generally subject to cliff vesting over a period between one to three years based on service.
Nonvested Stock.
 
The fair value of nonvested stock is based on the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. However, since our nonvested stock does not pay dividends during the vesting period, the fair value on the date of grant is reduced by the present value of the expected dividends over the requisite service period (discounted using the appropriate risk-free interest rate).
 
The following table summarizes changes in our nonvested stock during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and the related weighted-average grant date fair value:
 
 
30
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The total fair value of nonvested stock that vested during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, was $6.5 million, $11.5 million and $10.4 million, respectively, based on the weighted-average fair value on the vesting date, and $7.9 million, $12.2 million and $7.3 million, respectively, based on the weighted-average fair value on the date of grant. At December 31, 2009, our total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock was $14.5 million with a weighted-average recognition period of 2.1 years.
 
8.  SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN
 
Our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan designed to protect our shareholders against abusive takeover attempts and tactics. The rights plan operates to dilute the interests of any person or group attempting to take control of the Company if the attempt is not deemed by our Board of Directors to be in the best interests of our shareholders. Under the rights agreement, as originally adopted in October 1995 and amended and restated in October 2005, holders of our common stock were granted one right to purchase common stock, or Right, for each outstanding share of common stock held of record on November 24, 1995. All newly issued shares of common stock since that date have been accompanied by a Right. The Rights will become exercisable and trade independently from our common stock if a person or group acquires or obtains the right to acquire 20% or more of Equifaxs outstanding shares of common stock, or commences a tender or exchange offer that would result in that person or group acquiring 20% or more of the outstanding common stock, in each case without the consent of our Board. In the event the Rights become exercisable, each holder (other than the acquiring person or group) will be entitled to purchase that number of shares of securities or other property of Equifax having a market value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right. If Equifax were acquired in a merger or other business combination, each Right would entitle its holder to purchase the number of the acquiring companys common stock having a market value of two times the exercise price of the Right. In either case, our Board may choose to redeem the Rights for $0.01 per Right before they become exercisable. The Rights will expire on November 6, 2015, unless earlier redeemed, exchanged or amended by the Board.
 
9.  BENEFIT PLANS
 
We have defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans. We also maintain certain healthcare and life insurance benefit plans for eligible retired employees. The measurement date for our defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans is December 31 of each year.
 
  Pension benefits are provided through U.S. and Canadian defined benefit pension plans and two supplemental executive defined benefit pension plans.
Pension Benefits.
 
  Prior to December 31, 2009, we had one non-contributory qualified retirement plan covering most U.S. salaried employees (the Equifax Inc. Pension Plan, or EIPP), a qualified retirement plan that covered U.S. salaried employees (the U.S. Retirement Income Plan, or USRIP) who terminated or retired before January 1, 2005 and a defined benefit plan for most salaried and hourly employees in Canada (the Canadian Retirement Income Plan, or CRIP). On December 31, 2009, the plan assets and obligations of the EIPP were merged with the USRIP. The USRIP remained as the sole U.S. qualified retirement plan. There were no other plan amendments as a result of this merger. Benefits from these plans are primarily a function of salary and years of service.
U.S. and Canadian Retirement Plans.
 
On September 15, 2008, we announced a redesign of our retirement plans for our U.S. active employees effective January 1, 2009. The changes to our retirement plans froze the EIPP, a qualified defined benefit pension plan, for employees who did not meet certain grandfathering criteria related to retirement- eligible employees. Under the plan amendments, the EIPP was closed to new participants and the service credit for non-grandfathered participants was frozen, but participants will continue to receive credit for salary increases and vesting of service. Additionally, certain non-grandfathered employees and certain other employees not eligible to participate in the EIPP are able to participate in an enhanced 401(k) savings plan. As a result of these changes to the EIPP, we completed a remeasurement of the plan during the third quarter of 2008. The remeasurement did not materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements as of and for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008.
 
 
31
 
In January 2010, we made a contribution of $20.0 million to the USRIP. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we made contributions of $15.0 million to the EIPP and $1.8 million to the CRIP. Additionally, the Equifax Employee Benefits Trust contributed $12.5 million to the EIPP upon dissolution of the Trust in December 2009. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2007, we made a discretionary contribution to the EIPP of $12.0 million. We did not make a discretionary contribution during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, the USRIP met or exceeded ERISAs minimum funding requirements.
 
The annual report produced by our consulting actuaries specifies the funding requirements for our plans, based on projected benefits for plan participants, historical investment results on plan assets, current discount rates for liabilities, assumptions for future demographic developments and recent changes in statutory requirements. We may elect to make additional discretionary contributions to our plans in excess of minimum funding requirements, subject to statutory limitations.
 
  We maintain two supplemental executive retirement programs for certain key employees. The plans, which are unfunded, provide supplemental retirement payments, based on salary and years of service.
Supplemental Retirement Plans.
 
  We maintain certain healthcare and life insurance benefit plans for eligible retired employees. Substantially all of our U.S. employees may become eligible for the healthcare benefits if they reach retirement age while working for us and satisfy certain years of service requirements. The retiree life insurance program covers employees who retired on or before December 31, 2003. We accrue the cost of providing healthcare benefits over the active service period of the employee.
Other Benefits.
 
  A reconciliation of the benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of the plans is as follows:
Obligations and Funded Status.
 
 
The accumulated benefit obligation for the USRIP, CRIP and Supplemental Retirement Plans was $592.2 million at December 31, 2009. The accumulated benefit obligation for the USRIP, EIPP, CRIP and Supplemental Retirement Plans was $551.5 million at December 31, 2008.
 
At December 31, 2009, the USRIP and Supplemental Retirement Plans had projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of those plans respective assets. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for these plans in the aggregate were $583.6 million, $557.9 million and $459.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009.
 
 
32
 
At December 31, 2008, the USRIP, EIPP and Supplemental Retirement Plans had projected benefit obligations and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of those plans respective assets. The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for these plans in the aggregate were $550.3 million, $527.1 million and $405.0 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008.
 
The following table represents the net amounts recognized, or the funded status of our pension and other postretirement benefit plans, in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
Included in accumulated other comprehensive loss at December 31, 2009 and 2008, were the following amounts that have not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost:
 
 
The following indicates amounts recognized in other comprehensive income during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost.
 
 
33
 
 
The following represents the amount of prior service cost and actuarial loss included in accumulated other comprehensive loss that is expected to be recognized in net periodic benefit cost during the twelve months ending December 31, 2010:
 
 
Weighted-Average Assumptions.
 
 
  We determine our discount rates primarily based on high-quality, fixed-income investments and yield-to-maturity analysis specific to our estimated future benefit payments available as of the measurement date. Discount rates are reset annually on the measurement date to reflect current market conditions. We use a publicly published yield curve updated monthly to develop our discount rates. The yield curve provides discount rates related to a dedicated high-quality bond portfolio whose cash flows extend beyond the current period, from which we choose a rate matched to the expected benefit payments required for each plan.
Discount Rates.
 
  The expected rate of return on plan assets is based on both our historical returns and forecasted future investment returns by asset class, as provided by our external investment advisor. In setting the long-term expected rate of return, management considers capital markets future expectations and the asset mix of the plan investments. Prior to 2008, the U.S. Pension Plans investment returns were 10.9%, 13.0% and 7.5% over three, five and ten years, respectively. The returns exceeded the S&P 500 returns for similar periods of time primarily due to an asset allocation strategy where large allocations to alternative asset classes (hedge fund of funds, private equity, real estate and real assets) provided consistently higher returns with a low correlation to equity market returns. These returns historically demonstrate a long-term record of producing returns at or above the expected rate of return. However, the dramatic adverse market conditions in 2008 skewed the traditional measures of long-term performance, such as the ten-year average return. The severity of the 2008 losses, approximately negative 20%, makes the historical ten-year average return a less accurate predictor of future return expectations. In 2009, the investment returns were approximately 16%, reflecting a partial recovery of the 2008 losses. Our weighted-average expected rate of return declined from 8.02% in 2009 to approximately 7.75% for 2010 primarily related to the USRIP which declined due to our migration to a lower risk investment strategy, with increased allocation to lower risk/lower return asset classes, as well as the current forecast of expected future returns for our asset classes, which is lower than the prior year.
Expected Return on Plan Assets.
 
The calculation of the net periodic benefit cost for the USRIP and CRIP utilizes a market-related value of assets. The market-related value of assets recognizes the difference between actual returns and expected returns over five years at a rate of 20% per year.
 
  An initial 8.5% annual rate of increase in the per capita cost of covered healthcare benefits was assumed for 2010. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to an ultimate rate of 5.0% by 2015. Assumed healthcare cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plan. A one-percentage point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates at December 31, 2009 would have had the following effects:
Healthcare Costs.
 
 
34
 
 
We estimate that the future benefits payable for our retirement and postretirement plans are as follows at December 31, 2009:
 
 
  The fair value of the pension assets at December 31, 2009, is as follows:
Fair Value of Plan Assets.
 
 
 
 
 
35
 
 
 
The following table shows a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances for assets valued using significant unobservable inputs:
 
 
The fair value of the postretirement assets at December 31, 2009, is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gross realized and unrealized gains and losses, purchases and sales for Level 3 postretirement assets were not material for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009.
 
 
36
 
  The primary goal of the asset allocation strategy of the Plans is to produce a total investment return which will satisfy future annual cash benefit payments to participants and minimize future contributions from the Company. Additionally, this strategy will diversify the plan assets to minimize nonsystemic risk and provide reasonable assurance that no single security or class of security will have a disproportionate impact on the Plans. Investment managers are required to abide by the provisions of ERISA. Standards of performance for each manager include an expected return versus an assigned benchmark, a measure of volatility, and a time period of evaluation.
USRIP and EIPP, or the Plans, Investment and Asset Allocation Strategies.
 
The asset allocation strategy is determined by our external advisor forecasting investment returns by asset class and providing allocation guidelines to maximize returns while minimizing the volatility and correlation of those returns. Investment recommendations are made by our external advisor, working in conjunction with our in-house Investment Officer. The asset allocation and ranges are approved by in-house Plan Administrators, who are Named Fiduciaries under ERISA.
 
 
37
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The Plans, in an effort to meet asset allocation objectives, utilize a variety of asset classes which have historically produced returns which are relatively uncorrelated to those of the S&P 500 in most environments. Asset classes included in this category are alternative assets (hedge fund-of-funds), private equity (including secondary private equity) and real estate. The primary benefits of using these types of asset classes are: (1) their non-correlated returns reduce the overall volatility of the Plans portfolio of assets, and (2) their ability to produce superior risk-adjusted returns. This has allowed the Plans average annual investment return to exceed the S&P 500 index return over the last ten years. Additionally, the Plans allow certain of their managers, subject to specific risk constraints, to utilize derivative instruments, in order to enhance asset return, reduce volatility or both. Derivatives are primarily employed by the Plans in their fixed income portfolios and in the hedge fund-of-funds area. Derivatives can be used for hedging purposes to reduce risk. During 2007, the Equifax Master Trust entered into certain allowed derivative arrangements in order to minimize potential losses in the Plans assets. These agreements were settled in 2008 resulting in payments received of $13.2 million in the USRIP and $6.6 million in the EIPP.
 
The Plans are prohibited from investing additional amounts in Equifax stock once the market value of stock held by each plan exceeds 10% of the total market value of each plan. At December 31, 2009, the USRIPs assets included 0.5 million shares of Equifax common stock, with a market value of $15.3 million. At December 31, 2008, the USRIP and EIPPs assets included 0.8 million shares and 0.1 million shares, respectively, of Equifax common stock, with a market value of $21.3 million and $2.4 million, respectively. Not more than 5% of the portfolio (at cost) shall be invested in the securities of any one issuer, with the exceptions of Equifax common stock or other securities, and U.S. Treasury and government agency securities.
 
The following asset allocation ranges and actual allocations were in effect as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
 
Due to the timing of certain hedge fund redemptions and subsequent reinvestment, the EIPP Plan was under allocated to hedge funds and over allocated to cash at December 31, 2008.
 
  The Pension Committee of the CRIP has retained an investment manager who has the discretion to invest in various asset classes with the care, skill, and diligence expected of professional prudence. The CRIP has a separate custodian of those assets, which are held in various segregated pooled funds. The Pension Committee maintains an investment policy for the CRIP, which imposes certain limitations and restrictions regarding allowable types of investments. The current investment policy imposes those restrictions on investments or transactions such as (1) Equifax common stock or securities, except as might be incidental to any pooled funds which the plan may have, (2) commodities or loans, (3) short sales and the use of margin accounts, (4) put and call options, (5) private placements, and (6) transactions which are related-party in nature as specified by the Canadian Pension Benefits Standards Act and its regulations.
CRIP Investment and Asset Allocation Strategies.
 
 
38
 
Each pooled fund is associated with an asset classification, which has a primary investment objective. The objective for each asset class is related to a standard investment index and to a period of four-years. The following includes the objectives for each of the current five asset classes:
 
 
The following specifies the asset allocation ranges and actual allocation as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:
 
 
The investment goal is to achieve the composite return calculated based on the above benchmark allocation plus 1% over successive four-year periods. An additional objective is to provide a real rate of return of 3.0% when compared with the Canadian Consumer Price Index, also over successive four-year periods.
 
  Equifax sponsored a tax qualified defined contribution plan in 2009, the Equifax Inc. 401(k) Plan, or the Plan. The Company assumed sponsorship of the TALX Corporation Savings and Retirement Plan, or TALX Plan, upon the acquisition of TALX in 2007; however, the TALX Plan was subsequently merged into the Plan on December 31, 2007. We provide a discretionary match of participants contributions, up to six percent of employee contributions. Company contributions for the Plan during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were $13.8 million and $6.7 million, respectively. Company contributions for the Plan and TALX Plan in 2007 were $5.6 million.
Equifax Retirement Savings Plans.
 
  We also maintain defined contribution plans for certain employees in the U.K., Ireland and Canada. For the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our expenses related to these plans were not material.
Foreign Retirement Plans.
 
  We maintain deferred compensation plans that allow for certain management employees and the Board of Directors to defer the receipt of compensation (such as salary, incentive compensation, commissions or vested restricted stock units) until a later date based on the terms of the plans. The benefits under our deferred compensation plans are guaranteed by the assets of a grantor trust which, through our funding, purchased variable life insurance policies on certain consenting individuals, with this trust as beneficiary. The purpose of this trust is to ensure the distribution of benefits accrued by participants of the deferred compensation plans in case of a change in control, as defined in the trust agreement.
Deferred Compensation Plans.
 
  We have a shareholder-approved Key Management Incentive Plan (Annual Incentive Plan) for certain key officers that provides for annual or long-term cash awards at the end of various measurement periods, based on the earnings per share and/or various other criteria over the measurement period. Our total accrued incentive compensation for all incentive plans included in accrued salaries and bonuses on our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $49.4 million and $45.8 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
Long-Term Incentive Plan.
 
  We maintain employee benefit trusts for the purpose of satisfying obligations under certain benefit plans. These trusts held 2.1 million and 3.2 million shares of Equifax stock with a value, at cost, of $41.2 million and $51.8 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as well as cash, which was not material for both periods presented. The employee benefits trusts are as follows:
Employee Benefit Trusts.
 
 
39
 
 
 
 
The assets in these plans which are recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets are subject to creditors claims in case of insolvency of Equifax Inc.
 
10.  RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
 
  In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a $16.4 million restructuring charge ($10.4 million, net of tax) in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income primarily related to headcount reductions of approximately 400 positions. This charge resulted from our continuing efforts to align our business to better support our strategic objectives. Generally, severance benefits for our U.S. employees are paid through monthly payroll according to the number of weeks of severance benefit provided to the employee, while our international employees receive a lump sum severance payment for their benefit. Accordingly, we expect the majority of the payments to be completed by December 2010. Payments related to this charge totaled $1.7 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009.
2009 Restructuring Charges.
 
During the first quarter of 2009, we recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statements of Income an $8.4 million restructuring charge ($5.4 million, net of tax) associated with headcount reductions of approximately 300 positions. This charge resulted from our efforts to reduce and manage our expenses and to maintain our financial results in the face of a weak global economy and reduced revenues. We expect the majority of the payments to be completed by the first quarter of 2010. Payments related to this charge totaled $7.5 million during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009.
 
  In the third quarter 2008, we realigned our business to better support our strategic objectives and recorded a $16.8 million restructuring and asset write-down charge ($10.5 million, net of tax) of which $14.4 million was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses and $2.4 million was recorded in depreciation and amortization on our Consolidated Statements of Income. The $2.4 million recorded in depreciation and amortization is related to the write-down of certain internal-use software from which we will no longer derive future benefit.
2008 Restructuring and Asset Write-down Charges.
 
Of the $14.4 million recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses, $10.3 million was associated with headcount reductions of approximately 300 positions which was accrued for under existing severance plans or statutory requirements, and $4.1 million was related to certain contractual costs. Payments related to headcount reductions were substantially completed by March 31, 2009. Substantially all of the certain contractual costs, which primarily represents services we do not intend to utilize for which we are contractually committed to future payments, are expected to be paid by 2011. Payments related to headcount reductions and certain contractual costs totaled $5.4 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009. Total payments to date, through December 31, 2009, related to the third quarter 2008 restructuring charge were $11.9 million.
 
Restructuring charges are recorded in general corporate expense.  Restructuring charges related to discontinued operations were $4.1 million and $0.8 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
 
40
 
11.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
 
SunTrust Banks, Inc., or SunTrust
 
We considered SunTrust a related party until September 18, 2008, because Larry L. Prince, a member of our Board of Directors until that date, was also a director of SunTrust. L. Phillip Humann, a member of our Board of Directors, was Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of SunTrust from 2007 to April 2008 and prior thereto, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 2004 through 2006. Our relationships with SunTrust are described more fully as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Bank of America, N.A., or B of A
 
We considered B of A a related party until September 18, 2008, because Jacquelyn M. Ward, a member of our Board of Directors until that date, was also a director of B of A. Our relationships with B of A are described more fully as follows:
 
 
 
 
Fidelity National Information Services, Inc., or FNIS
 
We considered FNIS a related party until September 17, 2008, because Lee A. Kennedy, one of our directors until that date was President and Chief Executive Officer and a Director of FNIS. We sell certain consumer credit information services to FNIS. Revenue from FNIS, as a customer, for credit disclosure reports and portfolio reviews was not material during the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. In addition, FNIS provides customer invoice and disclosure notification printing and mailing services to us. Amounts paid to FNIS for fulfillment services were $12.1 million and $11.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
 
On February 29, 2008, in order to enhance our mortgage solutions market share, we acquired certain assets and specified liabilities of FIS Credit Services, Inc., a related party mortgage credit reporting reseller, for cash consideration of $6.0 million. This is considered a related party transaction since FNIS is the parent company of FIS Credit Services, Inc.
 
12.  SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
  We manage our business and report our financial results through the following five reportable segments, which are the same as our operating segments:
Reportable Segments.
 
 
41
 
 
 
 
 
 
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in our summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 1). We evaluate the performance of these reportable segments based on their operating revenues, operating income and operating margins, excluding any unusual or infrequent items, if any. Inter-segment sales and transfers are not material for all periods presented. The measurement criteria for segment profit or loss and segment assets are substantially the same for each reportable segment. All transactions between segments are accounted for at cost, and no timing differences occur between segments.
 
A summary of segment products and services is as follows:
 
  This segment includes consumer information services (such as credit information and credit scoring, credit modeling services, locate services, fraud detection and prevention services, identity verification services and other consulting services); mortgage loan origination information, appraisal, title and closing services; and consumer financial marketing services.
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions.
 
  This segment includes employment, income and social security number verification services (known as The Work Number) and employment tax and talent management services.
TALX.
 
  This segment includes information services products, which includes consumer and commercial services (such as credit and financial information, credit scoring and credit modeling services), credit and other marketing products and services, and products and services sold directly to consumers.
International.
 
  This segment includes credit information, credit monitoring and identity theft protection products sold directly to consumers via the Internet and in various hard-copy formats.
North America Personal Solutions.
 
  This segment includes commercial products and services such as business credit and demographic information, credit scores and portfolio analytics (decisioning tools), which are derived from our databases of business credit, financial and demographic information.
North America Commercial Solutions.
 
Segment information for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows:
 
 
42
 
 
Financial information by geographic area is as follows:
 
 
43
 
13.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
 
Quarterly financial data for 2009 and 2008 was as follows:
 
 
The comparability of our quarterly financial results during 2009 and 2008 was impacted by certain events, as follows:
 
 
 
 
44
 
14. Discontinued Operations
 
On April 23, 2010, we sold our Equifax Enabling Technologies LLC legal entity, consisting of our APPRO loan origination software (APPRO), for approximately $72 million.  On July 1, 2010, we sold substantially all the assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (DMS) for approximately $117 million.  Both of these businesses were reported in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment.  The historical results of these operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 are classified as discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  Revenue for these businesses for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $108.5 million, $122.1 million and $136.3 million, respectively.   Pretax income was $25.6 million, $38.2 million and $41.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.
 
The assets and liabilities of the discontinued operations included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows:
 
 
 
 
45
 
 

Exhibit 99.4
PART I.  FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
ITEM 1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss consists of the following components:
 
 
 
4
 
 
Comprehensive Income is as follows:
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company, we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc.
 
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  We collect, organize and manage various types of financial, demographic, employment and marketing information. Our products and services enable businesses to make credit and service decisions, manage their portfolio risk, automate or outsource certain payroll, tax and human resources business processes, and develop marketing strategies concerning consumers and commercial enterprises. We serve customers across a wide range of industries, including the financial services, mortgage, retail, telecommunications, utilities, automotive, brokerage, healthcare and insurance industries, as well as government agencies. We also enable consumers to manage and protect their financial health through a portfolio of products offered directly to consumers. As of March 31, 2010, we operated in the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Peru, Portugal, Spain, the United Kingdom, or U.K., Uruguay, and the United States of America, or U.S. We also maintain support operations in Costa Rica and the Republic of Ireland. We own an equity interest in a consumer credit information company in Russia. In March 2010, our Indian joint venture received a license to operate a nationwide credit information company in India.
Nature of Operations.
 
We develop, maintain and enhance secured proprietary information databases through the compilation of actual consumer data, including credit, employment, asset, liquidity, net worth and spending activity, and business data, including credit and business demographics, that we obtain from a variety of sources, such as credit granting institutions, public record information (including bankruptcies, liens and judgments), income and tax information primarily from large to mid-sized companies in the U.S., and marketing information.  We process this information utilizing our proprietary information management systems.
 
  The accompanying unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, the instructions to Form 10-Q and applicable sections of Regulation S-X. To understand our complete financial position and results, as defined by GAAP, this Form 10-Q should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, or 2009 Form 10-K.
Basis of Presentation.
 
Our unaudited Consolidated Financial Statements reflect all adjustments which are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of the periods presented. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation including the results of a business reclassified as a discontinued operation, which is more fully described in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  Our basic earnings per share, or EPS, is calculated as net income divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is calculated to reflect the potential dilution that would occur if stock options or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised and resulted in additional common shares outstanding. The net income amounts used in both our basic and diluted EPS calculations are the same. A reconciliation of the weighted-average outstanding shares used in the two calculations is as follows:
Earnings Per Share.
 
6
 
 
For the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, 3.3 million and 4.5 million stock options, respectively, were anti-dilutive and therefore excluded from this calculation.
 
  Our financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts and notes receivable, accounts payable and short-term and long-term debt. The carrying amounts of these items, other than long-term debt, approximate their fair market values due to the short-term nature of these instruments. The fair value of our fixed-rate debt is determined using quoted market prices for publicly traded instruments, and for non-publicly traded instruments through valuation techniques depending on the specific characteristics of the debt instrument, taking into account credit risk. As of March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt was $1.04 billion and $1.02 billion, respectively, compared to its carrying value of $1.01 billion and $1.00 billion, respectively.
Financial Instruments.
 
  Although derivative financial instruments are not utilized for speculative purposes or as the Companys primary risk management tool, derivatives have been used as a risk management tool to hedge the Companys exposure to changes in interest rates and foreign exchange rates. We have used interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements to manage interest rate risk associated with our fixed and floating-rate borrowings. Forward contracts on various foreign currencies have been used to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk of certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies. We recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. Derivative valuations reflect the value of the instrument including the value associated with counterparty risk.  As of March 31, 2010, we do not have any unsettled cash flow hedges.  The fair value liability of our unsettled foreign currency cash flow hedges was not material at December 31, 2009.
Derivatives and Hedging Activities.
 
  In conjunction with our November 2009 sale of five-year Senior Notes, we entered into five-year interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, which convert the debts fixed interest rate to a variable rate. These swaps involve the receipt of fixed rate amounts for floating interest rate payments over the life of the swaps without exchange of the underlying principal amount. Changes in the fair value of the interest rate swaps offset changes in the fair value of the fixed-rate Senior Notes they hedge due to changes in the designated benchmark interest rate and are recorded in interest expense. The fair value of these interest rate swaps was an asset of $3.3 million at March 31, 2010 and was recorded in other long-term assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  The fair value of these interest rate swaps was a liability of $3.3 million at December 31, 2009 and was recorded in other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
Fair Value Hedges.
 
  Fair value is determined based on the assumptions marketplace participants use in pricing the asset or liability. We use a three level fair value hierarchy to prioritize the inputs used in valuation techniques between observable inputs that reflect quoted prices in active markets, inputs other than quoted prices with observable market data and unobservable data (e.g., a companys own data).
Fair Value Measurements.
 
The following table presents items measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
 
7
 
 
(1)        We maintain a deferred compensation plan that allows for certain management employees to defer the receipt of compensation (such as salary, incentive compensation and commissions) until a later date based on the terms of the plan. The liability representing benefits accrued for plan participants is valued at the quoted market prices of the participants elections for investments. Identical instruments are traded in active markets as of March 31, 2010. As such, we have classified this liability as Level 1 within the fair value hierarchy.
 
(2)        The fair value of our interest rate swaps, designated as fair value hedges, is based on the present value of expected future cash flows using zero coupon rates and is classified within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
 
We hold interests in certain entities, including credit data and information solutions ventures, that are considered variable interest entities, or VIEs.  These variable interests relate to ownership interests that require financial support for these entities.  Our investments related to these VIEs totaled $8.7 million at March 31, 2010, representing our maximum exposure to loss.  We are not the primary beneficiary and are not required to consolidate any of these VIEs.
Variable Interest Entities.  
 
   In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued guidance requiring additional fair value disclosures for significant transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy and gross presentation of items within the Level 3 reconciliation. This guidance also clarifies that entities need to disclose fair value information for each class of asset and liability measured at fair value and that valuation techniques need to be provided for all non-market observable measurements. Our adoption of this guidance on January 1, 2010, did not impact our Consolidated Financial Statements as we have no items classified as Level 3.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements.
Fair Value Disclosures.  
 
In June 2009, the FASB amended the consolidation guidance for variable-interest entities and expanded disclosure requirements. The new guidance requires an enterprise to perform an analysis to determine whether the enterprises variable interests give it a controlling financial interest in the variable interest entity. The adoption of this guidance as noted above on January 1, 2010, did not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.
Variable Interest Entities.  
 
For additional information about recent accounting pronouncements adopted or pending adoption, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
8
 
2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
On April 23, 2010, we sold our Equifax Enabling Technologies LLC legal entity, consisting of our APPRO loan origination software (APPRO), for approximately $72 million.  On July 1, 2010, we sold substantially all the assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (DMS) for approximately $117 million.  Both of these businesses were previously reported in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment.  The results of operations for these businesses for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 were classified as discontinued operations.  Revenue for these businesses for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 was $23.6 million and $26.4 million, respectively.  Pretax income was $4.3 million and $5.8 million for the three month periods ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  We expect to record a gain from the sale of APPRO in the second quarter of 2010 of approximately $12 million, after tax.
 
As of March 31, 2010, assets and liabilities comprising the APPRO disposal group were considered held for sale and were recorded in other current assets and other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The assets and liabilities of the discontinued operations at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 were as follows:
 
 
3. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
  Goodwill represents the cost in excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired in a business combination. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis and on an interim basis if an event occurs or circumstances change that would reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. We perform our annual goodwill impairment tests as of September 30.
Goodwill.
 
Changes in the amount of goodwill for the three months ended March 31, 2010, are as follows:
 
 
  Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist of contractual/territorial rights representing the estimated fair value of rights to operate in certain territories acquired through the purchase of independent credit reporting agencies in the U.S. and Canada. Our contractual/territorial rights are perpetual in nature and, therefore, the useful lives are considered indefinite. Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized. We are required to test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that there may be an impairment of the asset value. We perform our annual indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment test as of September 30. Our contractual/territorial rights carrying amounts did not change materially during the three months ended March 31, 2010.
Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets.
 
  Purchased intangible assets represent the estimated fair value of acquired intangible assets used in our business. Purchased data files represent the estimated fair value of consumer credit files acquired primarily through the purchase of independent credit reporting agencies in the U.S. and Canada. We expense the cost of modifying and updating credit files in the period such costs are incurred. We amortize purchased data files, which primarily consist of acquired consumer credit files, on a straight-line basis. Primarily all of our other purchased intangible assets are also amortized on a straight-line basis. For additional information about the useful lives related to our purchased intangible assets, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
Purchased Intangible Assets.
 
9
 
Purchased intangible assets at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 consisted of the following:
 
 
Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets was $22.2 million and $19.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
4. DEBT
 
Debt outstanding at March 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009 was as follows:
 
 
  We are party to an $850.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility, which we refer to as the Senior Credit Facility, with a group of financial institutions. Borrowings may be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and share repurchase programs. The Senior Credit Facility is scheduled to expire in July 2011. Availability of the Senior Credit Facility for borrowings is reduced by the outstanding face amount of any letters of credit issued under the facility and, pursuant to our existing Board of Directors authorization, by the outstanding principal amount of our commercial paper notes. As of March 31, 2010, there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility and $708.6 million was available for borrowings.
Senior Credit Facility.
 
10
 
  Our $850.0 million commercial paper program has been established through the private placement of commercial paper notes from time-to-time. Maturities of commercial paper can range from overnight to 397 days. The commercial paper program is supported by our Senior Credit Facility and, pursuant to our existing Board of Directors authorization, the total amount of commercial paper which may be issued is reduced by the amount of any outstanding borrowings under our Senior Credit Facility. At March 31, 2010, $137.7 million in commercial paper notes was outstanding, all with maturities of less than 90 days.
Commercial Paper Program.
 
  We are a party to a credit agreement with a Canadian financial institution that provides for a C$20.0 million (denominated in Canadian dollars), 364-day revolving credit agreement. This agreement is scheduled to expire in June 2010. As of March 31, 2010, there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility.
Canadian Credit Facility.
 
For additional information about our debt agreements, see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
5. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
 
  On February 26, 2010, we purchased our headquarters building in Atlanta, Georgia, for cash consideration of $29.1 million, including fees.  The building and related capital lease obligation were recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets in February 2009 when we provided the lessor notification of our intent to purchase the building.
Headquarters Building.
 
  We have separate agreements with IBM, Acxiom, Tata Consultancy Services and others to outsource portions of our computer data processing operations, applications development, maintenance and related functions and to provide certain other administrative and operational services. The agreements expire between 2010 and 2014. The estimated aggregate minimum contractual obligation remaining under these agreements was approximately $175 million at December 31, 2009, with no future years minimum contractual obligation expected to exceed approximately $55 million. Annual payment obligations in regard to these agreements vary due to factors such as the volume of data processed; changes in our servicing needs as a result of new product offerings, acquisitions or divestitures; the introduction of significant new technologies; foreign currency; or the general rate of inflation. In certain circumstances (e.g., a change in control or for our convenience), we may terminate these data processing and outsourcing agreements, and, in doing so, certain of these agreements require us to pay a significant penalty.
Data Processing, Outsourcing Services and Other Agreements.
 
  We have an agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation, or CSC, and certain of its affiliates, collectively CSC, under which CSC-owned credit reporting agencies utilize our computerized credit database services. CSC retains ownership of its credit files and the revenues generated by its credit reporting activities. We receive a processing fee for maintaining the database and for each report supplied. The agreement will expire on July 31, 2018, and is renewable at the option of CSC for successive ten-year periods. The agreement provides us with an option to purchase CSCs credit reporting business if it does not elect to renew the agreement or if there is a change in control of CSC while the agreement is in effect. Under the agreement CSC also has an option, exercisable at any time, to sell its credit reporting business to us. The option expires in 2013. The option exercise price will be determined by a third-party appraisal process and would be due in cash within 180 days after the exercise of the option. We estimate that if the option were exercised at December 31, 2009, the price range would be approximately $600 million to $675 million. This estimate is based solely on our internal analysis of the value of the business, current market conditions and other factors, all of which are subject to constant change. Therefore, the actual option exercise price could be materially higher or lower than our estimate.
Agreement with Computer Sciences Corporation.
 
  We may issue standby letters of credit, performance bonds or other guarantees in the normal course of business. The aggregate notional amount of all performance bonds and standby letters of credit is not material at March 31, 2010, and all have a remaining maturity of one year or less. The maximum potential future payments we could be required to make under the guarantees is not material at March 31, 2010.
Guarantees and General Indemnifications.
 
11
 
We have agreed to standard indemnification clauses in many of our lease agreements for office space, covering such things as tort, environmental and other liabilities that arise out of or relate to our use or occupancy of the leased premises. Certain of our credit agreements include provisions which require us to make payments to preserve an expected economic return to the lenders if that economic return is diminished due to certain changes in law or regulations. In conjunction with certain transactions, such as sales or purchases of operating assets or services in the ordinary course of business, or the disposition of certain assets or businesses, we sometimes provide routine indemnifications, the terms of which range in duration and sometimes are not limited. Additionally, the Company has entered into indemnification agreements with its directors and executive officers to indemnify such individuals to the fullest extent permitted by law against liabilities that arise by reason of their status as directors or officers. The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance coverage to reduce its exposure to such obligations.
 
We cannot reasonably estimate our potential future payments under the indemnities and related provisions described above because we cannot predict when and under what circumstances these provisions may be triggered. We had no accruals related to indemnifications on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at March 31, 2010 or December 31, 2009.
 
  We are involved in legal proceedings, claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We periodically assess our exposure related to these matters based on the information which is available. We have recorded accruals in our Consolidated Financial Statements for those matters in which it is probable that we have incurred a loss and the amount of the loss, or range of loss, can be reasonably estimated.
Contingencies.
 
For other legal proceedings, claims and litigation, we have recorded loss contingencies that are immaterial, or we cannot reasonably estimate the potential loss because of uncertainties about the outcome of the matter and the amount of the loss or range of loss. Although the final outcome of these other matters cannot be predicted with certainty, any possible adverse outcome arising from these matters is not expected to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, either individually or in the aggregate. However, our evaluation of the likely impact of these matters may change in the future.
 
  In 2003, the Canada Revenue Agency, or CRA, issued Notices of Reassessment, asserting that Acrofax, Inc., a wholly-owned Canadian subsidiary of Equifax, is liable for additional tax for the 1995 through 2000 tax years, related to certain intercompany capital contributions and loans. The additional tax sought by the CRA for these periods ranges, based on alternative theories, from $8.4 million (8.5 million in Canadian dollars) to $18.6 million (19.0 million in Canadian dollars) plus interest and penalties. Subsequently in 2003, we made a statutorily-required deposit for a portion of the claim. We intend to vigorously contest these reassessments and do not believe we have violated any statutory provision or rule. While we believe our potential exposure is less than the asserted claims and not material to our Consolidated Financial Statements, if the final outcome of this matter was unfavorable to us, an additional claim may be filed by the local province. The likelihood and potential amount of such claim is unknown at this time. We cannot predict when this tax matter will be resolved.
Tax Matters.
 
For additional information about these and other commitments and contingencies, see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
6. INCOME TAXES
 
We are subject to U.S. federal, state and international income taxes. We are generally no longer subject to federal, state, or international income tax examinations by tax authorities for years ending prior to December 31, 2002, with few exceptions. In Canada, we are under audit by the Canada Revenue Agency for the 1995 through 2000 tax years (see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). For the U.K., tax years after 1999 are open for examination. Due to the potential for resolution of state and foreign examinations, and the expiration of various statutes of limitations, it is reasonably possible that our gross unrecognized tax benefit balance may change within the next twelve months by a range of zero to $6.4 million, related primarily to issues involving our U.K. operations.
 
  Our effective income tax rate was 37.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, down from 38.3% for the same period in 2009, as a higher foreign tax rate in 2010 was more than offset by an unfavorable discrete item recorded in the first quarter of 2009 related to the effect of a change in California state income taxes on our deferred tax liabilities.
Effective Tax Rate.
 
12
 
7. BENEFIT PLANS
 
We sponsor defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans. We also maintain certain healthcare and life insurance benefit plans for eligible active and retired employees. For additional information about our benefit plans, see Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
The following table provides the components of net periodic benefit cost for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
8. RESTRUCTURING CHARGES
 
  In the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a $16.4 million restructuring charge ($10.4 million, net of tax) in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income primarily related to headcount reductions of approximately 400 positions. This charge resulted from our continuing efforts to align our business to better support our strategic objectives. Generally, severance benefits for our U.S. employees are paid through monthly payroll according to the number of weeks of severance benefit provided to the employee, while our international employees receive a lump sum severance payment for their benefit. Accordingly, we expect the majority of the payments to be completed by December 2010. Payments related to this charge totaled $3.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2010.  Total payments to date, through March 31, 2010, related to the fourth quarter 2009 restructuring charge were $4.8 million.
2009 Restructuring Charges.
 
During the first quarter of 2009, we recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income an $8.4 million restructuring charge ($5.4 million, net of tax) associated with headcount reductions of approximately 300 positions. This charge resulted from our efforts to reduce and manage our expenses and to maintain our financial results in the face of a weak global economy and reduced revenues. The majority of the payments were completed by the end of the first quarter of 2010. Payments related to this charge were not material during the three months ended March 31, 2010.  Total payments to date, through March 31, 2010, related to the first quarter 2009 restructuring charge were $7.7 million.
 
9. SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
  We manage our business and report our financial results through the following five reportable segments, which are the same as our operating segments:
Reportable Segments.
 
 
13
 
The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in our summary of significant accounting policies in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K. We evaluate the performance of these reportable segments based on their operating revenues, operating income and operating margins, excluding unusual or infrequent items, if any. Inter-segment sales and transfers are not material for all periods presented. The measurement criteria for segment profit or loss and segment assets are substantially the same for each reportable segment. All transactions between segments are accounted for at cost, and no timing differences occur between segments.
 
A summary of segment products and services is as follows:
 
  This segment includes consumer information services (such as credit information and credit scoring, credit modeling services, locate services, fraud detection and prevention services, identity verification services and other consulting services); mortgage loan origination information, appraisal, title and closing services; and consumer financial marketing services.
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions.
 
  This segment includes information services products, which includes consumer and commercial services (such as credit and financial information, credit scoring and credit modeling services), credit and other marketing products and services, and products and services sold directly to consumers similar to those sold by North America Personal Solutions.
International.
 
  This segment includes employment, income and social security number verification services (known as The Work Number ) and employment tax and talent management services.
TALX.
 
  This segment includes credit information, credit monitoring and identity theft protection products sold directly to consumers via the internet.
North America Personal Solutions.
 
  This segment includes commercial products and services such as business credit and demographic information, credit scores and portfolio analytics (decisioning tools), which are derived from our databases of business credit and financial information.
North America Commercial Solutions.
 
Operating revenue and operating income by operating segment during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, are as follows:
 
 
14
 

 
Exhibit 99.5
ITEM 2.  MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
As used herein, the terms Equifax, the Company, we, our and us refer to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries as a combined entity, except where it is clear that the terms mean only Equifax Inc.
 
All references to earnings per share data in Managements Discussion and Analysis, or MD&A, are to diluted earnings per share, or EPS, unless otherwise noted. Diluted EPS is calculated to reflect the potential dilution that would occur if stock options or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised and resulted in additional common shares outstanding.
 
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
 
We are a leading global provider of information solutions, employment, income and social security number verifications and human resources business process outsourcing services. We leverage some of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights which enable our business customers to grow faster, more efficiently, more profitably and to inform and empower consumers.
 
Businesses rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, credit portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and human resources and payroll services. We also offer a portfolio of products that enable individual consumers to manage their financial affairs and protect their identity. Our revenue stream is diversified among individual consumers and among businesses across a wide range of industries and international geographies.
 
Segment and Geographic Information
 
  The U.S. Consumer Information Solutions, or USCIS, segment, the largest of our five segments, consists of three product and service lines: Online Consumer Information Solutions, or OCIS; Mortgage Solutions; and Consumer Financial Marketing Services. OCIS and Mortgage Solutions revenue is principally transaction-based and is derived from our sales of products such as consumer credit reporting and scoring, mortgage settlement services, identity verification, fraud detection and modeling services. USCIS also markets certain of our decisioning products which facilitate and automate a variety of consumer credit-oriented decisions. Consumer Financial Marketing Services revenue is principally project- and subscription-based and is derived from our sales of batch credit, consumer wealth or demographic information such as those that assist clients in acquiring new customers, cross-selling to existing customers and managing portfolio risk.
Segments.
 
The International segment consists of Canada Consumer, Europe and Latin America. Canada Consumers products and services are similar to our USCIS offerings, while Europe and Latin America are made up of varying mixes of product lines that are in our USCIS, North America Commercial Solutions and North America Personal Solutions reportable segments.
 
The TALX segment consists of The Work Number and Tax and Talent Management business units. The Work Number revenue is transaction-based and is derived primarily from employment, income and social security number verifications. Tax and Talent Management revenues are derived from our provision of certain human resources business process outsourcing services that include both transaction- and subscription-based product offerings. These services assist our customers with the administration of unemployment claims and employer-based tax credits and the assessment of new hires.
 
North America Personal Solutions revenue is both transaction- and subscription-based and is derived from the sale of credit monitoring, debt management and identity theft protection products, which we deliver to consumers electronically via the internet.
 
North America Commercial Solutions revenue is principally transaction-based, with the remainder project-based, and is derived from the sale of business information, credit scores and portfolio analytics that enable customers to utilize our reports to make financing, marketing and purchasing decisions related to businesses.
 
 
  We currently operate in the following countries: Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Honduras, Peru, Portugal, the Republic of Ireland, Spain, the U.K., Uruguay, and the U.S. Our operations in Costa Rica and the Republic of Ireland focus on data handling and customer support activities. We own an equity interest in a consumer credit information company in Russia. In March 2010, our Indian joint venture received a license to operate a nationwide credit information company in India.
Geographic Information.
 
  Management focuses on a variety of key indicators to monitor operating and financial performance. These performance indicators include measurements of operating revenue, change in operating revenue, operating income, operating margin, net income attributable to Equifax, diluted earnings per share, cash provided by operating activities and capital expenditures. The key performance indicators for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009, were as follows:
Key Performance Indicators.
 
Business Environment and Company Strategy
 
Consumer and small business lending activity, which is one of the drivers of demand for our services, continues to be soft in many markets around the world, and we expect growth in consumer lending to lag the general economic recovery that is emerging in many of these markets.  In addition, new financial regulations are increasing the compliance requirements for our customers, introducing new challenges and opportunities in the marketing of our product and service offerings to financial institutions. Accordingly, we are further diversifying our revenues by pursuing and investing in key strategic initiatives including new product innovation, differentiated decisioning solutions and analytics leveraging our diverse data assets and technology, acquiring new data assets and technologies, and international expansion. We are also focused on managing our expenses through the use of LEAN, Work Out and other process improvement initiatives in order to maintain operating margins, earnings performance and cash flow.
 
For 2010, we anticipate increasing interest for our services from credit card issuers following the actions they have taken to comply with the new credit card regulations which became effective in February of this year and as they begin to engage in new lending activity. As a result, we expect to see revenue growth gradually improve in 2010. Given our outlook and current foreign exchange rates, we expect operating results to be stable at their current levels during the first half of the year, with some increase in performance during the second half.
 
2
 
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONSTHREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2010 AND 2009
 
Consolidated Financial Results
 
Operating Revenue
 
 
Revenue increased, when compared to the first quarter of 2009, primarily due to the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates which increased revenue by $14.8 million, or 3%.  The revenue decline in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment in the first quarter of 2010, when compared to the prior year, was offset by revenue increases in our four other segments.  For additional information about revenue fluctuations and operating income by segment, see Segment Financial Results below.
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
The increase in cost of services, when compared to the same period in 2009, was due to the impact of foreign currency translation, which increased our cost of services by $6.9 million during the first quarter of 2010, and our fourth quarter 2009 acquisitions of IXI Corporation and Rapid Reporting Verification Company which contributed $6.2 million of incremental cost year-over-year.  Overall cost of services increased at a faster rate than revenues because some of our highest margin credit reporting services have declined in this market environment, while we have replaced this revenue with our acquisitions and with services that have higher data and/or operating costs.
 
Selling, general and administrative expense decreased $8.2 million, compared to the same period in 2009.  This decrease was primarily due to a restructuring charge of $8.4 million incurred in the first quarter of 2009 related to headcount reductions.  Other increases in selling, general and administrative expenses of $3.5 million due to changes in foreign exchange rates and $4.4 million due to the inclusions of businesses which we acquired in the fourth quarter of 2009 were offset by the impact of our cost reduction programs implemented over the last year, lower bad debt expense and lower incentive costs.
 
3
 
Depreciation and amortization expense increased over the same period in 2009, primarily due to our fourth quarter 2009 acquisitions which contributed $2.7 million of incremental depreciation and amortization expense.
 
For additional information about the charges and fees related to our restructuring activity, see Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q.
 
Operating Income and Operating Margin
 
The $7.4 million, or 8%, increase in operating income for the first quarter of 2010, when compared to the same period in 2009, is attributed to the 4% increase in revenues and a net improvement in operating margin, driven by the $8.4 million restructuring charge in the first quarter of 2009 which did not recur this year, but was partially offset by a less favorable mix of products.
 
Other Expense, Net
 
The increase in other expense, net, as compared to 2009, was primarily due to the change in other income, net, as interest expense was flat.  Other income, net, for 2009 included a $1.1 million gain on our repurchase of $7.5 million principal amount of our ten-year senior notes due 2017 and a $1.3 million gain related to a litigation settlement.  Interest expense was flat, when compared to the same period in 2009, as our average debt balance decreased from $1.23 billion in 2009 to $1.17 billion in 2010 while the average cost of our total debt increased slightly from 4.7% in 2009 to 4.9% in 2010.
 
4
 
Income Taxes
 
 
Our effective income tax rate was 37.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, down from 38.3% for the same period in 2009, due primarily to a higher foreign tax rate for 2010 more than offset by an unfavorable discrete item recorded in the first quarter of 2009 related to the effect of a change in California state income taxes on our deferred tax liabilities.
 
Net Income
  
The increase in net income attributable to Equifax for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, was primarily a function of higher operating income in three of our five businesses, a reduction in restructuring charges as we recorded $8.4 million during the first quarter of 2009 and a lower effective tax rate for 2010.
On April 23, 2010, we sold our Equifax Enabling Technologies LLC legal entity, consisting of our APPRO loan origination software (APPRO), for approximately $72 million.  On July 1, 2010, we sold substantially all the assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (DMS) for approximately $117 million.  The results of operations for these businesses for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 were classified as discontinued operations.
 
5
 
Segment Financial Results
 
USCIS
 
 
The decrease in revenue and operating margin for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, was mainly due to continued weakness in the U.S. credit and lending environment and a significant reduction in mortgage application activity.  The decline in revenue was partially offset by increased revenue from our Consumer Financial Marketing Services business due to our acquisition of IXI Corporation in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
OCIS
 
Revenue for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in the prior year, declined primarily due to a reduction of online credit decision transaction volume, including declines in reseller volume as mortgage refinancing activity has declined from 2009. The 15% decline in volume for the first quarter of 2010, over the same period in the prior year, was partially offset by a 1% increase in average revenue per transaction. This increase was attributable to a disproportionate decline in volume from large national accounts which are generally billed at a lower average price per transaction.
 
Mortgage Solutions
 
The three month decrease in revenue, over the prior year period, is due to the decline in volume for mortgage credit reporting and settlement services products resulting from a slowdown in mortgage application activity compared to a very strong period of activity during the first three months of 2009.
 
Consumer Financial Marketing Services
 
Revenue increased for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to our acquisition of IXI Corporation, or IXI, during the fourth quarter of 2009.  IXI contributed approximately $6 million to revenue in the quarter, which partially offset declines in prescreen volumes and pricing which are down in what remains a competitive market.
 
USCIS Operating Margin
 
Operating margin decreased for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, mainly due to revenue declines described above in our OCIS and Mortgage Solutions businesses. Our operating expenses generally do not decline at the same rate as our revenue due to a high portion of costs that are fixed rather than variable in the short term. The overall decline in revenue was partially offset by lower operating expenses primarily due to reduced incentive costs and lower bad debt expense.
 
6
 
International
 
Revenue increased, when compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency translation. When compared to the prior year, local currency fluctuation against the U.S. dollar favorably impacted our International revenue by $13.8 million, or 13%. Revenue was up 2% in local currency from the first quarter of 2009.
 
Europe
 
The increase in revenue for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the prior year period, was due to the favorable foreign currency impact of $2.5 million, or 7%. In local currency, revenue declined 5% when compared to the same period in 2009. The local currency decline was primarily due to decreased volume in the U.K. caused by weakness in the U.K. economy affecting customer demand.
 
Latin America
 
Revenue increased over the prior year period primarily due to favorable foreign currency impacts of $6.8 million, or 15%. In local currency, revenue increased 5% from the first quarter of 2009. Local currency revenue increased in most of our Latin American geographies, resulting from increased volume for our collection services and decisioning technology products, partially offset by a revenue decline in Chile due to lower volumes resulting from a slowdown in credit activity following the February 2010 earthquake.
 
Canada Consumer
 
The increase in revenue for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to favorable foreign currency impact of $4.5 million, or 21%. In local currency, revenue increased 4% when compared to the same period in 2009. The increase in local currency was due to increased volumes for our analytical and enabling technology products primarily due to growth in the customer base for a new fraud product.
 
International Operating Margin
 
Operating margin decreased for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to the broad-based decline in online volume, our highest margin product, which has put downward pressure on operating margins.
 
7
 
TALX
 
 The Work Number
 
Revenue from The Work Number increased $9.1 million, or 23% over the prior year quarter, primarily as a result of our acquisition of Rapid Reporting Verification Company in the fourth quarter of 2009, which performed as expected, and mid-single digit growth in revenue from traditional employment-based verifications and complementary services despite a 35% decline in the Mortgage Bankers Application Index. Growth in verifications of consumer employment from government agencies and collections companies was partially offset by a decline in verifications from mortgage companies.
 
 
The decrease in revenue during the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, resulted primarily from revenue declines in our Tax Management Services business driven primarily by decreases in unemployment compensation claims activity, partially offset by growth in our Talent Management Services business due to increased government hiring activity at the U.S. Transportation and Security Administration and other large government customers.
 
 
Operating margin increased for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the prior year period, due to continued revenue growth, while operating expenses grew at a slower rate due to the leveraging of certain fixed operational and overhead costs and certain operating process efficiencies.
 
North America Personal Solutions
 
 Revenue increased $1.3 million, or 3% from the prior year, primarily due to increased direct to consumer, Equifax-branded subscription service revenue, which was up 13% from the prior year, driven by higher subscribers and higher average revenue per subscription.  The increase in subscription revenue was partially offset by lower transaction sales, as a result of lower levels of new consumer credit activity and lower corporate breach revenues.  The operating margin increase in the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the prior year period, was primarily due to the increase in revenue discussed above, as well as lower advertising expense in the first quarter of 2010.  Advertising expense may vary from quarter to quarter depending on market conditions and opportunities.
   
 
8
 
North America Commercial Solutions
 
Revenue increased 18% for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in the prior year.  In local currency, revenue increased 12% from the first quarter of 2009. The local currency increase was primarily due to increases in U.S. risk and marketing service revenue and revenue from our data management products resulting from increases in project-based activity and mid-market customer gains.  The favorable impact of changes in the U.S.Canadian foreign exchange rate impacted revenue by $1.0 million, or 6%. Online transaction volume for U.S. commercial credit information products for the first quarter of 2010 was flat when compared to the prior year period. Operating margin increased for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily due to revenue growth previously discussed as operating expenses increased minimally in local currency.
 
General Corporate Expense
 
Our general corporate expenses are costs that are incurred at the corporate level and include those expenses impacted by corporate direction, such as shared services, administrative, legal, restructuring and equity compensation costs. General corporate expenses decreased for the first quarter of 2010, as compared to the same period in 2009, primarily as a result of the $8.4 million restructuring charge recorded during the first quarter of 2009 related to headcount reductions.
 
LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
Management assesses liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund operating, investing and financing activities. We continue to generate substantial cash from operating activities and remain in a strong financial position, with resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing our capital structure to meet short- and long-term objectives.
 
Sources and Uses of Cash
 
Funds generated by operating activities and our credit facilities continue to be our most significant sources of liquidity. We believe that funds generated from expected results of operations will be sufficient to finance our anticipated working capital and other cash requirements (such as capital expenditures, interest payments, potential pension funding contributions, dividend payments and stock repurchases, if any) for the foreseeable future. In the event that credit market conditions were to deteriorate, we would rely more heavily on borrowings as needed under the Senior Credit Facility described below. At March 31, 2010, $708.6 million was available to borrow under our Senior Credit Facility. Our Senior Credit Facility does not include a provision under which lenders could refuse to allow us to borrow under this facility in the event of a material adverse change in our financial condition, as long as we are in compliance with the covenants contained in the lending agreement.
 
9
 
The following table summarizes our cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009:
 
 
nmnot meaningful
 
Operating Activities
 
The decrease in operating cash flow was primarily driven by $5.0 million of additional pension contributions and other changes in net working capital during 2010.
 
  The ability of certain of our subsidiaries and associated companies to transfer funds to us is limited, in some cases, by certain restrictions imposed by foreign governments; these restrictions do not, individually or in the aggregate, materially limit our ability to service our indebtedness, meet our current obligations or pay dividends.
Fund Transfer Limitations.
 
10
 
 
Investing Activities
 
Capital Expenditures
 
 
Our capital expenditures are used for developing, enhancing and deploying new and existing software in support of our expanding product set, replacing or adding facilities and equipment, updating systems for regulatory compliance, the licensing of software applications and investing in system reliability, security and disaster recovery enhancements. Capital expenditures in 2010 were higher than 2009 due to the purchase of our headquarters building in Atlanta, Georgia, during the first quarter of 2010 for cash consideration of $29.1 million, including fees.  For accounting purposes, we recorded the building as a fixed asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and the capital lease obligation to pay for it as a liability, beginning in the first quarter of 2009, when we gave notice of our intent to buy out the lease.
 
Acquisitions and Investments
 
 
During the first quarter of 2010, we paid a $6.0 million contingent earn-out associated with a 2008 acquisition included in our TALX segment.  The earn-out was measured on the completion of 2009 revenue targets and was accrued at December 31, 2009.
 
On April 23, 2010, we sold our Equifax Enabling Technologies LLC legal entity, consisting of our APPRO loan origination software (APPRO), for approximately $72 million.  On July 1, 2010, we sold substantially all the assets of our Direct Marketing Services division (DMS) for approximately $117 million.  Both of these businesses were previously reported in our U.S. Consumer Information Solutions segment.  The results of operations for these businesses for the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 were classified as discontinued operations.  We expect to record a gain on the sale of APPRO in the second quarter of 2010 of approximately $12 million, after tax.
 
Financing Activities
 
Borrowings and Credit Facility Availability
 
 
11
 
Credit Facility Availability
 
Our principal unsecured revolving credit facility with a group of banks, which we refer to as the Senior Credit Facility, permits us to borrow up to $850.0 million through July 2011. The Senior Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes. Availability of the Senior Credit Facility for borrowings is reduced by the outstanding face amount of any letters of credit issued under the facility and, pursuant to our existing Board of Directors authorization, by the outstanding principal amount of our commercial paper notes, or CP. We currently intend to renew the Senior Credit Facility on or prior to its maturity date. Given current credit markets conditions, we expect to face higher bank fees and increased borrowing spreads in connection with this renewal.
 
Our $850.0 million CP program has been established to allow for borrowing through the private placement of CP with maturities ranging from overnight to 397 days. We may use the proceeds of CP for general corporate purposes.
 
We have a 364-day revolving credit agreement with a Canadian bank (our Canadian Credit Facility) which permits us to borrow up to C$20.0 million (denominated in Canadian dollars).  The Canadian Credit Facility terminates in June 2010. Borrowings may be used for general corporate purposes.
 
At March 31, 2010, $137.7 million was outstanding in CP and no amounts were outstanding under our Senior Credit Facility or Canadian Credit Facility. The weighted-average interest rate on our CP, all with maturities less than 90 days, was 0.3% per annum.  At March 31, 2010, a total of $728.2 million was available under our Senior and Canadian Credit Facilities.
 
At March 31, 2010, approximately 65% of our debt was fixed-rate debt and 35% was effectively variable-rate debt. Our variable-rate debt, consisting of CP and our five-year senior notes due 2014 (against which we have executed interest rate swaps to convert interest expense from fixed rates to floating rates), generally bears interest based on a specified margin plus a base rate (LIBOR) or on CP rates for investment grade issuers. The interest rates reset periodically, depending on the terms of the respective financing arrangements. At March 31, 2010, interest rates on our variable-rate debt ranged from 0.3% to 2.1%.
 
Borrowing and Repayment Activity
 
Net short-term borrowings (repayments) primarily represent activity under our CP program, as well as activity under our Canadian Credit Facility. Net (repayments) borrowings under long-term revolving credit facilities relates to activity on our Senior Credit Facility. We primarily borrow under our CP program, when available.
 
The increase in net short-term (repayments) borrowings primarily reflects the net issuance of $2.7 million of CP notes since December 31, 2009. The increase in net repayments under long-term revolving credit facilities represents the repayment of borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2009, under our Senior Credit Facility as we increased our use of CP to fund our capital needs.
 
  A downgrade in our credit ratings would increase the cost of borrowings under our CP program and credit facilities, and could limit, or in the case of a significant downgrade, preclude our ability to issue CP. Our outstanding indentures and comparable instruments also contain customary covenants including, for example, limits on the incurrence of secured debt and sale/leaseback transactions. In addition, our Senior Credit Facility and Canadian Credit Facility each require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio of not more than 3.5. Our leverage ratio was 2.02 at March 31, 2010. None of these covenants are considered restrictive to our operations and, as of March 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants.
Debt Covenants.
 
We do not have any credit rating triggers that would accelerate the maturity of a material amount of our outstanding debt; however, our 6.3% Senior Notes due 2017 and 7.0% Senior Notes due 2037 (together, the Senior Notes) contain change of control provisions. If we experience a change of control or publicly announce our intention to effect a change of control and the rating on the Senior Notes is lowered by each of Standard & Poors, or S&P, and Moodys Investors Service, or Moodys, below an investment grade rating within 60 days of such change of control or notice thereof, we will be required to offer to repurchase the Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Senior Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest.
 
For additional information about our debt, including the terms of our financing arrangements, basis for variable interest rates and debt covenants, see Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
12
 
Equity Transactions
 
 
 Sources and uses of cash related to equity during the three months ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows:
 
 
Contractual Obligations, Commercial Commitments and Other Contingencies
 
Our contractual obligations have not changed materially from those reported in our 2009 Form 10-K.  For additional information about certain obligations and contingencies, including those related to Computer Sciences Corporation, see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q.
 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
There have been no material changes with respect to our off-balance sheet arrangements from those presented in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
Related Party Transactions
 
We engage in various transactions and arrangements with related parties. We believe the terms of the transactions and arrangements do not differ from those that would have been negotiated with an independent party. For additional information about our related parties and associated transactions, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
Benefit Plans
 
At December 31, 2009, our U.S. Retirement Income Plan, or USRIP, met or exceeded ERISAs minimum funding requirements. In January 2010, we made a contribution of $20.0 million to the USRIP. In the future, we expect to make minimum funding contributions as required and may make discretionary contributions, depending on certain circumstances, including market conditions and our liquidity needs. We believe additional funding contributions, if any, would not prevent us from continuing to meet our liquidity needs, which are primarily funded from cash flows generated by operating activities, available cash and cash equivalents, and our committed credit facilities.
 
13
 
For our non-U.S., tax-qualified retirement plans, we fund an amount sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements but no more than allowed as a tax deduction pursuant to applicable tax regulations. For our non-qualified supplementary retirement plans, we fund the benefits as they are paid to retired participants, but accrue the associated expense and liabilities in accordance with GAAP.
 
For additional information about our benefit plans, see Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
Seasonality
 
We experience seasonality in certain of our revenue streams. Revenue generated from The Work Number business unit within the TALX operating segment is generally higher in the first quarter due primarily to the provision of Form W-2 preparation services which occur in the first quarter each year. Revenue from our OCIS and Mortgage Solutions business units tends to increase in periods of the year in which our customers have higher volumes of credit granting decisions, most commonly during the second and third quarters.
 
RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
For information about new accounting pronouncements and the potential impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K.
 
APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe the most complex and sensitive judgments, because of their significance to the Consolidated Financial Statements, result primarily from the need to make estimates and assumptions about the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. The Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates section in the MD&A and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in our 2009 Form 10-K describe the significant accounting estimates and policies used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Although we believe that our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based upon information available at the time. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions.
 
14
 


