FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20100428165548.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 28, 2010, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three month period ended March 31, 2010.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibits
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 
4
 

 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today announced financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2010.  The company reported revenue of $461.3 million in the first quarter of 2010, a 3 percent increase from the first quarter of 2009.  Revenue was unchanged from the prior year when adjusted for the favorable effect of foreign exchange rates.  First quarter 2010 net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $56.1 million, a 5 percent increase from the prior year.  Diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations attributable to Equifax for the first quarter of 2010 was $0.44 compared to $0.42 in the same period of the prior year.  On a non-GAAP basis, adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax, which includes the results of discontinued operations, but excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense and a prior year restructuring charge, was $0.56 compared to $0.58 in the first quarter of 2009.
ATLANTA, April 28, 2010
"The strength and diversity of our business units were again evident with our first quarter performance. North America Personal Solutions and North America Commercial Solutions exceeded our expectations for revenue growth, and four of our five business units achieved constant dollar growth over the prior year during the quarter, said Richard F. Smith, Equifax's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  Even more encouraging, as the economy stabilized and our clients focused more on new opportunities, our revenue trends generally strengthened as the quarter progressed.
 
First Quarter 2010 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS)
Total revenue was $191.4 million in the first quarter of 2010, down 6 percent from the first quarter of 2009.
Operating margin for USCIS continuing operations was 33.1 percent in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 36.3 percent in the first quarter of 2009 and 33.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009.
International
Total revenue was $116.2 million in the first quarter of 2010, a 15 percent increase over the first quarter of 2009.  In local currency, revenue was up 2 percent compared to the first quarter of 2009.
Operating margin for International was 24.7 percent in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 28.7 percent in the first quarter of 2009.
TALX
Total revenue was $95.3 million in the first quarter of 2010, an 8 percent increase over the first quarter of 2009.
 
2
 
Operating margin for TALX was 22.6 percent in the first quarter of 2010, up from 21.5 percent in the first quarter of 2009.
North America Personal Solutions
Revenue was $39.7 million, a 3 percent increase from the first quarter of 2009. Operating margin was 25.2 percent, up from 15.5 percent in the first quarter of 2009.
North America Commercial Solutions
Revenue was $18.7 million, up 12 percent in local currency and 18 percent in U.S. dollars compared to the first quarter of 2009.  Operating margin was 23.5 percent, up from 14.4 percent in the first quarter of 2009.
Second Quarter 2010 Outlook
 
Based on the current level of domestic and international business activity and current foreign exchange rates, consolidated revenue for the second quarter of 2010 is expected to be up in the low to mid single-digits from the year-ago quarter.  Second quarter 2010 adjusted EPS, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense and the gain that will be recognized from the APPRO sale, is expected to be between $0.55 and $0.59.
 
(www.equifax.com)
About Equifax
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 14 other countries. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
Earnings Conference Call and Audio Webcast
 
In conjunction with this release, Equifax will host a conference call tomorrow, April 29, 2010, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT) via a live audio webcast.  To access the webcast, go to the Investor Center of our website at . The discussion will be available via replay at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the webcast.  This press release is also available at that website.
www.equifax.com
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This earnings release presents diluted EPS attributable to Equifax which includes the results of discontinued operations, but excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and a restructuring charge in the prior year, both net of tax, and operating income and margin excluding a restructuring charge in the prior year.  These are important financial measures for Equifax but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP.
 
3
 
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as alternative measures of operating income, operating margin or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related notes are presented in the Q&A.  This information can also be found under Investor Center/GAAP/Non-GAAP Measures on our website at .
www.equifax.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are made on the basis of managements views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made.  Management does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.  Such differences may result from actions taken by Equifax, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond Equifaxs control, including but not limited to changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment, changes in demand for Equifax's products and services, our ability to develop new products and services, pricing and other competitive pressures, our ability to achieve targeted cost efficiencies, risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data, risks associated with our ability to complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments, changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including federal or state responses to identity theft concerns, and the outcome of our pending litigation.  Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
4
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
5
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
6
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
7
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
Operating revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
nm - not meaningful
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2010 results using 2009 exchange rates.
 
8
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
Our effective income tax rate was 37.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2010, down from 38.3% for the same period in 2009.  Our foreign tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2010, increased from the prior year, but was more than offset by an unfavorable discrete item recorded in the first quarter of 2009 related to the effect of a change in California state income taxes on our deferred tax liabilities.
Depreciation and amortization are as follows:
The U.S. dollar impact on operating revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
9
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
nm - not meaningful
(1) Restructuring charge includes $8.4 million of severance expense in the first quarter of 2009.  See the Notes to this reconciliation for additional detail.
 
10
 
 
Notes to Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures
 
Restructuring Charge
During the
first
quarter of 2009,
the C
ompany recorded
a restructuring charge primarily related to severance expense of $
8.4 million, pretax, ($5.4 million, net of tax)
in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Management believes e
xcluding th
is
charge from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the
three months
ended
March
3
1
, 20
09
, as compared to 20
10
,
since
a
charge of such
a
material amount
is
not comparable amon
g the periods. T his is consistent
with how our management reviews and assesses Equifax
s historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
 
- We calculate this financial measure by excluding acquisition-related amortization expense and the 2009 restructuring charge, both net of tax, from the determination of net income attributable to Equifax in the calculation of diluted EPS. Net income attributable to Equifax includes the results of our discontinued operation as management has had responsibility for operating profitability of this business during the period presented. These financial measures are not prepared in conformity with GAAP. Management believes
Diluted EPS attributable to Equifax, adjusted for acquisition-related amortization expense and restructuring charge
that th
e
s
e
measure
s
are
useful
because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense
and other items that are not comparable
when measuring operating profitability
, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives,
and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis
by excluding items that relate to acqui
sition-related
intangible assets
and items that impact comparability
.
- Management believes excluding the 2009 restructuring charge from the calculation of operating income and margin, on a non-GAAP basis, is
Adjusted operating income and operating margin, excluding restructuring charge
useful because management excludes
items that are not comparable
when measuring operating
profitability
, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives,
and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis
by excluding items that
impact comparability
.
 
11
 


