FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20101108082907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 8.01.   Other Events.
Equifax Inc. issued a press release dated November 8, 2010, announcing that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its quarterly common stock dividend from $0.04 per share to $0.16 per share.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)  Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
The following exhibit is being furnished with this report:
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Equifax Inc. (NYSE: ) today announced that its Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share, a 400 percent increase from the current dividend of  $0.04 per share, payable on December 15, 2010, to shareholders of record at the close of business on November 24, 2010.
ATLANTA, GA, November 8, 2010 
EFX
The company has a long history of returning significant cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The Board has decided to raise the portion of the cash distributed to shareholders as dividends, setting a target dividend payout ratio of 25% to 35% of net income adjusted for unusual items.
The Boards decision underscores their confidence in the operating performance of the company, the strength of our balance sheet, and the long-term growth prospects that we have outlined, said Richard F. Smith, Equifax Chairman and CEO. Our strategy is working; our business is growing.  We will continue to invest, organically and through acquisition, to achieve the long-term growth targets we have set for ourselves.  And we intend to continue to provide a strong and attractive return to our investors through a consistent and meaningful dividend and share buybacks.
 
About Equifax ()
www.equifax.com
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 14 other countries throughout North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements regarding the timing and amount of future dividend payments, share repurchases, the targeted dividend payout ratio, investment in strategic growth initiatives and achievement of long term growth targets.  These statements are made on the basis of managements views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made.  Management does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.   The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend on the Companys financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.
 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.  Such differences may result from actions taken by Equifax, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond Equifaxs control, including, but not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment and the demand for Equifax's products and services. Other risk factors include our ability to develop new products and services, respond to pricing and other competitive pressures, complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments and achieve targeted cost efficiencies; risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data; changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations, federal or state responses to identity theft concerns; and the outcome of our pending litigation.  Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 


