FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20101004161032.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act 
o
(17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.   Other Events.
On October 4, 2010, Equifax Inc. announced that it completed on October 1, 2010, the acquisition of Anakam, Inc., a provider of large-scale, software-based, multi-factor authentication solutions.  Terms of the transaction were not disclosed.   A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following exhibit is being furnished with this report:
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
For More Information
Equifax
Tim Klein
404-885-8555
404-771-2029 (wireless)
tim.klein@equifax.com
Jennifer Costello
Equifax Inc.
(404) 885-8907
jennifer.costello@equifax.com
Equifax Acquires Anakam
Combination Will Provide Industry-leading Portfolio of Online Identification and Authentication Solutions
Atlanta  October 4, 2010 -- Equifax Inc. (NYSE:EFX) announced today it has acquired a leader in large-scale, software-based, multi-factor authentication solutions and recognized recently by Inc. magazine as one of the fastest-growing private companies in America.  Terms of the transaction, which the companies completed October 1, were not disclosed.
Anakam
, Inc.,
The global identity management market, spurred by increases in online commerce and information sharing, has become a large and growing market  With the combination of Anakams Identity Suite and Equifaxs eIDverifier service, the company will be able to provide an industry-unique single, integrated platform for two-factor identification as well as no-touch, risk-based identity verification and identity proofing.
.
Anakam has focused on industries, including government and healthcare, where traditional solutions have been inadequate in verifying and authenticating large and diverse web users.  The company created a revolutionary authentication platform that is secure, scalable, and easy-to-deploy and use, eliminating the need for hard tokens or the downloading of software.
Founded in 2004, Anakam is headquartered in San Diego, with additional offices in Arlington, VA.  It will become a division of Equifax, and become part of the companys Technology and Analytical Services organization.
Leveraging Anakams solutions and highly-experienced management team alongside Equifaxs decisioning technology platforms, market presence and financial strength will allow us to broaden our portfolio of solutions in this large and rapidly-growing market, said Rajib Roy, President, Equifax Technology and Analytical Services. With Anakam, Equifax will become a premier provider of cloud-based authentication solutions.
 
 
Equifax has been an innovator in identity proofing, verifying more than 60 million identities annually. Anakams unique software adds a secure, cost-effective solution that can scale to millions of users while eliminating the need for cards and tokens.
The acquisition by Equifax marks an exciting new direction, one in which we are jointly taking identity services and trusted business enablement to the next level, according to Allan Camaisa, President and CEO of Anakam. Our global customers and prospects are making critical decisions on how to establish trust and reduce fraud as they move their business operations online to eliminate costs, increase efficiency and improve quality. The intellectual property that Equifax and Anakam bring together around a single, integrated platform for identity proofing and multifactor authentication will be a powerful force in the exploding consumer authentication marketplace.
 
About Equifax ()
www.equifax.com
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 15 other countries throughout North America, Latin America and Europe. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
 
About Anakam ()
www.anakam.com
Anakam is a global leader in multi-factor authentication, identity proofing and verification technologies.  With Anakam organizations can defend against unauthorized access, system breach, data loss and fraud.  Anakams flagship product the Anakam Identity Suite is an affordable and scalable solution which gives organizations the power to configure authentication policy based on level of risk, individual business unit use cases and compliance requirements. The nations leading healthcare, government, banking and commercial organizations have chosen Anakam to prove trusted access to their sensitive data.  For more information, please visit .
http://www.anakam.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
This press release includes forward-looking statements regarding Equifaxs acquisition of ANAKAM, including statements related to Equifaxs and ANAKAMs product and service offerings, business strategy and general business outlook.  Any such statement may be influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the control of Equifax or ANAKAM, that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected, described, expressed or implied in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties.  Potential risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the expected benefits and anticipated synergies of the combined companies may not be achieved after the closing, the combined operations may not be successfully integrated in a timely manner, if at all, as well as industry, general economic conditions, and competitive, legal, governmental and technological factors.  Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations or financial condition of Equifax or ANAKAM.
Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and its other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Equifax and ANAKAM assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 


