FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20110727165841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 27, 2011, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2011.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)    Exhibits
 
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: July 27, 2011
 
3
 
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
4
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today announced financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011.  The company reported revenue from continuing operations of $487.1 million in the second quarter of 2011, a 6 percent increase from the second quarter of 2010. On May 31, 2011, we completed the merger of our Brazilian business with Boa Vista Servicos S.A. (BVS) in exchange for a 15 percent equity interest in BVS, which is now the second largest consumer and commercial credit information company in Brazil.   Excluding Brazilian operating results in both periods, a non-GAAP measure, second quarter revenue was up 7 percent.
ATLANTA, July 27, 2011
Second quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $0.28, down 39 percent from the second quarter of 2010 driven by a loss on the merger of our Brazilian business of $0.22 per share. The loss included the recognition of foreign exchange losses since our initial investment in 1998 and the income tax effects of the transaction. On a non-GAAP basis, adjusted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, excluding the impact of the loss on the merger of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense, was $0.61, up 9 percent from the second quarter of 2010.
Overall performance in the second quarter was solidly in line with our expectations. Continued weakness in the U.S. mortgage sector that weighed on some of our core operating segments was offset by double digit revenue growth in International, North America Personal Solutions, and North America Commercial. The merger of our Brazilian operations with Boa Vista Servicos creates a much stronger competitor in one of the most attractive markets in Latin America, said Richard F. Smith, Equifaxs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Economic and regulatory uncertainty exists; however, we are optimistic about our opportunities for the second half of 2011. Improving trends in core U.S. credit, strong performance with a couple of our more unique product offerings, improved operating performance in International, and continued market share gains in North America Personal Solutions and Commercial will offset the challenges we face in the mortgage market.
 
 
 
 
Second Quarter 2011 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS)
Total revenue was $194.0 million in the second quarter of 2011 compared to $184.6 million in the second quarter of 2010, an increase of 5 percent.  Revenue was up 7 percent compared to the first quarter of 2011.
 
 
Operating margin for USCIS was 36.5 percent in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 37.1 percent in the second quarter of 2010.
International
Total revenue was $130.8 million in the second quarter of 2011, an 11 percent increase over the second quarter of 2010.  In local currency, revenue was up 4 percent compared to the second quarter of 2010.  On a non-GAAP basis, excluding Brazil, revenue grew 18 percent on a reported basis and 11 percent on a local currency basis.
 
 
Operating margin for International was 26.1 percent in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 25.4 percent in the second quarter of 2010.
 
2
 
TALX
Total revenue was $96.3 million in the second quarter of 2011, a 2.7 percent decrease over the second quarter of 2010.
 
 
Operating margin for TALX was 21.6 percent in the second quarter of 2011 compared to 23.2 percent in the second quarter of 2010 and 21.9 percent in the first quarter of 2011.
North America Personal Solutions
Revenue was $45.2 million, a 12 percent increase from the second quarter of 2010. Operating margin was 27.7 percent, up from 25.4 percent in the second quarter of 2010.
North America Commercial Solutions
Revenue was $20.8 million, up 10 percent in local currency and up 12 percent in U.S. dollars compared to the second quarter of 2010.  Operating margin was 20.9 percent, compared to 20.2 percent in the second quarter of 2010.
Third Quarter 2011 Outlook
 
Based on the current level of domestic and international business activity that we have experienced through the current date and current foreign exchange rates, consolidated revenue from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2011 is expected to be up 6 to 9 percent from the year-ago quarter.  Third quarter 2011 adjusted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, is expected to be between $0.61 and $0.65.
 
(www.equifax.com)
About Equifax
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 14 other countries. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
 
3
 
 
Earnings Conference Call and Audio Webcast
 
In conjunction with this release, Equifax will host a conference call tomorrow, July 28, 2011, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT) via a live audio webcast.  To access the webcast, go to the Investor Center of our website at . The discussion will be available via replay at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the webcast.  This press release is also available at that website.
www.equifax.com
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This earnings release presents operating revenue excluding the results of our Brazilian operations and diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax which excludes the loss on the merger of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense, net of tax.  These are important financial measures for Equifax but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as an alternative measure of operating income, operating margin or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related notes are presented in the Q&A.  This information can also be found under Investor Center/GAAP/Non-GAAP Measures on our website at .
www.equifax.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are made on the basis of managements views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made.  Management does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.  Such differences may result from actions taken by Equifax, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond Equifaxs control, including, but not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment and the demand for Equifax's products and services. Other risk factors include our ability to successfully develop and market new products and services, respond to pricing and other competitive pressures, complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments and achieve targeted cost efficiencies; risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data; changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations, federal or state responses to identity theft concerns; and the outcome of our pending litigation.  Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
4
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
5
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
6
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
7
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
8
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
Operating revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
 
 
nm - not meaningful
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2011 results using 2010 exchange rates.
 
9
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 59.4% for the three months ended June 30, 2011 up from 35.3% for the sameperiod in 2010 due primarily to the impact of recording $17.5 million of tax expense associated with the merger of our Brazilian business with BVS.  The impact of the sale increased our effective rate 23.2% for the quarter.  The remainder of the increase is due to a higherforeign income tax rate and the effect of changes in various state income tax laws.
 
 
Depreciation and amortization are as follows:
The U.S. dollar impact on operating revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
 
10
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
nm - not meaningful
 
 
11
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2011 results using 2010 exchange rates.
 
 
12
 
 
Notes to Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures
 
 During the second quarter of 2011, the Company completed the merger of our Brazilian business with Boa Vista Servicos S.A. (BVS) in exchange for a 15 percent equity interest in BVS.  The Company recorded a $27.8 million loss on the transaction.  Management believes excluding the loss from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, as compared to 2010, since a loss of such an amount is not comparable among the periods.  This is consistent with how our management reviews and assesses Equifaxs historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
Loss on the merger of Brazilian business
- We calculate this financial measure by excluding the loss on the merger of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense from the determination of net income attributable to Equifax in the calculation of diluted EPS. These financial measures are not prepared in conformity with GAAP. Management believes that these measures are useful because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and other items that are not comparable when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquisition-related intangible assets and items that impact comparability.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, adjusted for loss on the merger of Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense
- Management believes excluding the results of our Brazilian operations from the calculation of operating revenue, on a non-GAAP basis, is useful because management excludes items that are not comparable when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that impact comparability.
Adjusted operating revenue, excluding the results of our Brazilian operations
 
13
 


