FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20110509164216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
EQUIFAX INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in Charter)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
The following are the final voting results for each of the four items voted on at the meeting.
There were 12,480,092 broker non-votes with respect to each director nominee listed above.
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with the Board of Directors recommendation, a majority of the votes cast by shareholders voted, on an advisory (non-binding) basis, to hold an advisory vote to approve executive compensation every year.  In line with this recommendation by our shareholders, it is the current intention of the Board of Directors to include an advisory shareholder vote on executive compensation in its proxy materials on an annual basis until the next required advisory vote on the frequency of shareholder votes on executive compensation, which will occur no later than our Annual Meeting of Shareholders in 2017.
 
 
The information disclosed under Item 5.07 is incorporated in this item by reference.
 
On May 5, 2011, the Company issued a press release announcing, among other matters disclosed, that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $150 million of its common stock in connection with a previously authorized share repurchase program. This amount is in addition to the approximately $104.5 million unused Board authorization which was available at March 31, 2011 under the existing share repurchase program. Repurchases under the program will be effected from time to time through open market and privately negotiated transactions at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate, subject to market conditions. The program has no stated expiration date and may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
The information provided in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liability of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(c)
 
 
3
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
4
 
 
Exhibit Index
The following exhibit is being furnished with this report:
 
 
 
5
 

 
 
NEWS RELEASE
Equifax Board of Directors Declares Quarterly Dividend;
Equifax Inc. (NYSE: ) today announced that the Board of Directors has declared a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per share, payable on June 15, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close of business on May 25, 2011.  Equifax has paid cash dividends for 97 consecutive years.
ATLANTA, GA, May 5, 2011 
EFX
 
Equifax also announced that the Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $150 million of the companys common stock, in addition to the $104.5 million that remained available at March 31, 2011 under the Boards previous share repurchase authorizations.  Stock repurchases under this program may be made through open-market and privately negotiated transactions at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate.  The stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date and may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice.
 
Equifax is strongly committed to driving growth and increasing shareholder value, said Richard F. Smith, Equifax Chairman and CEO.  We intend to continue to invest in our business to achieve our long-term growth targets, and also to provide a strong and effective return to our investors through a consistent and meaningful dividend and a prudent level of share buybacks.
 
About Equifax ()
www.equifax.com
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
 
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 15 other countries throughout North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, such as statements regarding the timing, consistency and amount of future dividend payments, share repurchases, investment in strategic growth initiatives and achievement of long-term growth targets.  These statements are made on the basis of managements views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made.  Management does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.   The declaration and payment of dividends is at the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors and will depend on the Companys financial results, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors deemed relevant by the Board.
 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.  Such differences may result from actions taken by Equifax, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond Equifaxs control, including, but not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment and the demand for Equifax's products and services. Other risk factors include our ability to develop new products and services, respond to pricing and other competitive pressures, complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments and achieve targeted cost efficiencies; risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data; changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations, federal or state responses to identity theft concerns; and the outcome of our pending litigation.  Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 


