FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20111026164414.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 26, 2011, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2011.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
99.1       Press release of Equifax Inc. dated October 26, 2011.
 
 
2
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 26, 2011
 
 
3
 
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 
4
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.  Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today announced financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.  The company reported revenue from continuing operations of $490.4 million in the third quarter of 2011, a 4 percent increase from the third quarter of 2010. Excluding Brazilian operating results, a non-GAAP measure, due to the deconsolidation of Brazil in the second quarter of 2011, third quarter revenue was up 8 percent.
ATLANTA, October 26, 2011
Third quarter diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $0.54, up 11 percent from the third quarter of 2010.  On a non-GAAP basis, adjusted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, excluding the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, was $0.65, up 8 percent from the third quarter of 2010.
The strong performance we delivered in the third quarter is a direct reflection on the effectiveness of our business strategy and our ability to execute. For the quarter, we grew revenue at double digit rates in our International (excluding Brazil), North America Personal Solutions, and North America Commercial Solutions businesses and at solid single digit rates in USCIS and TALX despite lower year-over-year activity in the mortgage market," said Richard F. Smith, Equifax's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "As we look to the future, the fundamentals of our business are strong, and I expect the performance we have delivered this year, including our outlook for the fourth quarter, to position us very well in 2012."
 
Third Quarter 2011 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS)
Total revenue was $202.0 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $194.0 million in the third quarter of 2010, an increase of 4 percent.
Operating margin for USCIS was 36.6 percent in the third quarter of 2011 compared to 37.2 percent in the third quarter of 2010.
International
Total revenue was $118.6 million in the third quarter of 2011, a 3 percent decrease over the third quarter of 2010.  In local currency, revenue was down 7 percent compared to the third quarter of 2010.  On a non-GAAP basis, excluding Brazil, revenue grew 17 percent on a reported basis and 12 percent on a local currency basis.
Operating margin for International was 29.3 percent in the third quarter of 2011 compared to 25.2 percent in the third quarter of 2010.
TALX
Total revenue was $102.8 million in the third quarter of 2011, a 4 percent increase over the third quarter of 2010.
Operating margin for TALX was 23.0 percent in the third quarter of 2011 compared to 22.9 percent in the third quarter of 2010 and 21.6 percent in the second quarter of 2011.
 
2
 
North America Personal Solutions
Revenue was $45.5 million, a 14 percent increase from the third quarter of 2010. Operating margin was 32.8 percent, up from 31.9 percent in the third quarter of 2010.
North America Commercial Solutions
Revenue was $21.5 million, up 16 percent in local currency and up 18 percent in U.S. dollars compared to the third quarter of 2010.  Operating margin was 23.6 percent, compared to 17.9 percent in the third quarter of 2010.
 
Fourth Quarter 2011 Outlook
 
Based on the current level of domestic and international business activity that we have experienced through the current date and current foreign exchange rates, consolidated revenue from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of 2011 is expected to be up 8 to 10 percent from the year-ago quarter, excluding Brazil.  Fourth quarter 2011 adjusted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, is expected to be between $0.65 and $0.68.
 
About Equifax
 
Equifax is a global leader in consumer and commercial information solutions, providing businesses of all sizes and consumers with information they can trust. We organize and assimilate data on more than 500 million consumers and 81 million businesses worldwide, and use advanced analytics and proprietary technology to create and deliver customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Equifax operates or has investments in 17 countries and is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500
 Index. Its common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX. For more information, please visit www.equifax.com.
 
Earnings Conference Call and Audio Webcast
 
In conjunction with this release, Equifax will host a conference call tomorrow, October 27, 2011, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT) via a live audio webcast.  To access the webcast, go to the Investor Center of our website at . The discussion will be available via replay at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the webcast.  This press release is also available at that website.
www.equifax.com
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This earnings release presents operating revenue excluding the results of our Brazilian operations from Equifax Inc., International, and Latin America revenue. The release also presents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax which excludes the loss on the merger of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense, net of tax.  These are important financial measures for Equifax but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP.
 
 
3
 
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as an alternative measure of operating revenue or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related notes are presented in the Q&A.  This information can also be found under Investor Center/GAAP/Non-GAAP Measures on our website at .
www.equifax.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are made on the basis of managements views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made.  Management does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.  Such differences may result from actions taken by Equifax, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond Equifaxs control, including, but not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment and the demand for Equifax's products and services. Other risk factors include our ability to successfully develop and market new products and services, respond to pricing and other competitive pressures, complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments and achieve targeted cost efficiencies; risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data; changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations, federal or state responses to identity theft concerns; and the outcome of our pending litigation.  Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
4
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
5
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
6
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
7
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
8
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
Operating revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
nm - not meaningful
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2011 results using 2010 exchange rates.
 
 
9
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
Our effective tax rate from continuing operations was 36.2% for the three months ended September 30, 2011 up from 34.4% for the same period in 2010.  The increase is due to federal and state tax benefits realized during the third quarter of 2010 that did not recur in the same period in 2011.
Depreciation and amortization are as follows:
The U.S. dollar impact on operating revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
 
10
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
nm - not meaningful
 
 
11
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2011 results using 2010 exchange rates.
 
 
12
 
 
Notes to Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures
 
 During the second quarter of 2011, the Company completed the merger of our Brazilian business with Boa Vista Servicos S.A. (BVS) in exchange for a 15 percent equity interest in BVS.  The Company recorded a $27.8 million loss on the transaction.  Management believes excluding the loss from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, as compared to 2010, since a loss of such an amount is not comparable among the periods.  This is consistent with how our management reviews and assesses Equifaxs historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
Loss on the merger of Brazilian business
- We calculate this financial measure by excluding the loss on the merger of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense from the determination of net income attributable to Equifax in the calculation of diluted EPS.  These financial measures are not prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Management believes that these measures are useful because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and other items that are not comparable when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquisition-related intangible assets and items that impact comparability.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, adjusted for the loss on the merger of Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense
- Management believes excluding the Brazilian revenue from the calculation of operating revenue, on a non-GAAP basis, is useful because it allows investors to evaluate the Companys growth on a basis consistent with the current composition of our business.
Adjusted operating revenue, excluding the results of our Brazilian operations
 
13
 


