FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20110209164327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
         
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  
2
  
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 9, 2011, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three and twelve month periods ended December 31, 2010.  A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
  
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
4
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 
 
5
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Contact:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
-- Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today announced financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010.  The company reported revenue from continuing operations of $482 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, an 11 percent increase from the fourth quarter of 2009.  Fourth quarter 2010 net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $62.2 million, a 13 percent increase from the prior year.  On a non-GAAP basis, adjusted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, excluding the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, was $0.62.
ATLANTA, February 9, 2011
For the full year 2010, revenue from continuing operations was $1.86 billion, an 8 percent increase from 2009.  Full year 2010 net income from continuing operations attributable to Equifax was $235.2 million compared to $217.8 million in 2009, up 8 percent.  Diluted EPS from continuing operations was $1.86 compared to $1.70 for the full year 2009.  On a non-GAAP basis, full year adjusted EPS from continuing operations, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, restructuring charges (both net of tax) and an income tax benefit, was $2.31, up 6 percent from the prior year period.
Our solid performance in the fourth quarter completes a year where this management team executed very well and made significant investments in our strategic initiatives, including New Product Innovation, merger and acquisition activity, and Decision 360 . Constant dollar organic growth for the quarter was 9 percent, the strongest growth we have experienced in several years, said Richard F. Smith, Equifaxs Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. As a result, our strong performance and the opportunities that we are pursuing gave the Board the confidence to increase our quarterly dividend from 4 cents per share to 16 cents per share. We enter 2011 a much stronger and better positioned company to take on challenges as well as capitalize on market opportunities.
 
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2010 Report
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS)
Total revenue was $191.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to $170.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2009, an increase of 12 percent.
Operating margin for USCIS was 36.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 33.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009.
International
Total revenue was $125.9 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, a 7 percent increase over the fourth quarter of 2009.  In local currency, revenue was up 6 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2009.
Operating margin for International was 23.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 27.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
2
 
TALX
Total revenue was $102.2 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, a 14 percent increase over the fourth quarter of 2009.
Operating margin for TALX was 24.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 21.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009.
North America Personal Solutions
Revenue was $37.8 million, a 5 percent increase from the fourth quarter of 2009. Operating margin was 30.9 percent, up from 28.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009.
North America Commercial Solutions
Revenue was $24.9 million, up 11 percent in local currency and up 12 percent in U.S. dollars compared to the fourth quarter of 2009.  Operating margin was 32.3 percent, compared to 34 percent in the fourth quarter of 2009.
 
Full Year 2010 Report
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
First Quarter 2011 Outlook
 
Based on the current level of domestic and international business activity and current foreign exchange rates, consolidated revenue from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2011 is expected to be up 6 to 8 percent from the year-ago quarter.  First quarter 2011 adjusted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, is expected to be between $0.56 and $0.59, up 6 to 11 percent from 2010.
 
(www.equifax.com)
About Equifax
 
Equifax empowers businesses and consumers with information they can trust. A global leader in information solutions, we leverage one of the largest sources of consumer and commercial data, along with advanced analytics and proprietary technology, to create customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
With a strong heritage of innovation and leadership, Equifax continuously delivers innovative solutions with the highest integrity and reliability.  Businesses  large and small  rely on us for consumer and business credit intelligence, portfolio management, fraud detection, decisioning technology, marketing tools, and much more.  We empower individual consumers to manage their personal credit information, protect their identity, and maximize their financial well-being.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia, Equifax Inc. operates in the U.S. and 15 other countries. Equifax is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol EFX.
 
Earnings Conference Call and Audio Webcast
 
In conjunction with this release, Equifax will host a conference call tomorrow, February 10, 2010, at 8:30 a.m. (EDT) via a live audio webcast.  To access the webcast, go to the Investor Center of our website at . The discussion will be available via replay at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the webcast.  This press release is also available at that website.
www.equifax.com
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This earnings release presents operating income and margin excluding restructuring charges and diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense, restructuring charges in the prior year, all net of tax, and an income tax benefit in the prior year.  These are important financial measures for Equifax but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as an alternative measure of operating income, operating margin or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related notes are presented in the Q&A.  This information can also be found under Investor Center/GAAP/Non-GAAP Measures on our website at .
www.equifax.com
 
 
4
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Management believes certain statements in this earnings release may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements are made on the basis of managements views and assumptions regarding future events and business performance as of the time the statements are made.  Management does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied.  Such differences may result from actions taken by Equifax, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond Equifaxs control, including, but not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment and the demand for Equifax's products and services. Other risk factors include our ability to develop new products and services, respond to pricing and other competitive pressures, complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments and achieve targeted cost efficiencies; risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data; changes in laws and regulations governing our business, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations, federal or state responses to identity theft concerns; and the outcome of our pending litigation.  Certain additional factors are set forth in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 under Item 1A, Risk Factors, and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
5
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
6
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
7
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
8
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
9
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
1.    Can you provide a further analysis of operating revenue and operating income by operating segment?
Operating revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
 
nm - not meaningful
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2010 results using 2009 exchange rates.
10
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
2.    What drove the fluctuation in the effective tax rate?
Our effective tax rate was 33.5% for the three months ended December 31, 2010 up from 18.2% for the same period in 2009 due primarily to the recognition of a $7.3 million income tax benefit during the fourth quarter of 2009 related to our ability to utilize foreign tax credits beyond 2009.
 
3.     Can you provide depreciation and amortization by segment?
Depreciation and amortization are as follows:
4.     What was the currency impact on the foreign operations?
The U.S. dollar impact on operating revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
11
 
 
 
nm - not meaningful
(1) Restructuring charge includes $16.4 million of primarily severance expense in the fourth quarter of 2009 and $8.4 million of severance expense in the first quarter of 2009.  See the Notes to this reconciliation for additional detail.
(2) We recorded a $7.3 million income tax benefit during the fourth quarter of 2009 related to our ability to utilize foreign tax credits beyond 2009.  See the Notes to this reconciliation for additional detail.
 
12
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
nm - not meaningful
(1) Restructuring charge includes $16.4 million of primarily severance expense in the fourth quarter of 2009 and $8.4 million of severance expense in the first quarter of 2009.  See the Notes to this reconciliation for additional detail.
 
 
13
 
 
Notes to Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP
 
Financial Measures
 
 During the fourth and first quarters of 2009, we recorded restructuring charges primarily related to severance expense of $16.4 million, pretax, ($10.4 million, net of tax) and $8.4 million, pretax, ($5.4 million, net of tax) respectively, in selling, general and administrative expenses on our Consolidated Statements of Income.  Management believes excluding this charge from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the three and twelve months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to 2009, since a charge of such an amount is not comparable among the periods.  This is consistent with how our management reviews and assesses Equifaxs historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
Restructuring Charge
 
During the fourth quarter of 2009, we recorded a $7.3 million income tax benefit related to our ability to utilize foreign tax credits beyond 2009.  The income tax benefit was recorded in provision for income taxes on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Management believes excluding the income tax benefit from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to 2009, since income tax benefits of such material amounts are not comparable among the periods. This is consistent with how our management reviews and assesses Equifaxs historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
Income Tax Benefit
 
 
- We calculate this financial measure by excluding acquisition-related amortization expense and the 2009 restructuring charges, all net of tax, and the 2009 income tax benefit from the determination of net income attributable to Equifax in the calculation of diluted EPS.  These financial measures are not prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Management believes that these measures are useful because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and other items that are not comparable when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquisition-related intangible assets and items that impact comparability.
Diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Equifax, adjusted for acquisition-related amortization expense, restructuring charge and income tax benefit
- Management believes excluding the restructuring charges from the calculation of operating income and margin, on a non-GAAP basis, is useful because management excludes items that are not comparable when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that impact comparability.
Adjusted operating income and operating margin, excluding restructuring charges
 
 
14
 


