FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20121211163656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
   
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 __________________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): 
December 10, 2012
 
EQUIFAX INC.
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code: 
(404) 885-8000
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
Public Offering of Senior Notes Due 2022
 
On December 10, 2012, Equifax Inc. (the Company) executed an Underwriting Agreement with J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as the representatives of the underwriters named therein, with regard to the issuance and sale by the Company of $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 3.30% Senior Notes due December 15, 2022.  The Notes will be issued pursuant to an Indenture dated as of June 29, 1998 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as Trustee, as supplemented by a Fourth Supplemental Indenture, to be dated as of December 17, 2012. 
 
The following documents are being filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated by reference into the Companys effective Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-168429) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 30, 2010: (i) the Underwriting Agreement, filed as Exhibit 1.1 hereto; (ii) the form of Fourth Supplemental Indenture between the Company and the Trustee, including the form of Note as Exhibit A, filed as Exhibit 4.2 hereto; (iii) the opinion of counsel addressing the validity of the Notes, filed as Exhibit 5.1 hereto; and (iv)
the Companys computation of ratios of earnings to fixed charges, filed as Exhibit 12.1 hereto.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Item 9.01         Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 The representations, warranties and covenants contained in the agreements filed as exhibits to this report have been made only for the purposes of the respective agreements as of specific dates and solely for the benefit of the parties to the respective agreements and may have been qualified by certain confidential disclosures between the parties, among other limitations. The representations and warranties were made for the purposes of allocating contractual risk between the parties and should not be relied upon by investors as a disclosure of factual information relating to the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
  
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: December 11, 2012
 
  
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
Execution version
 
Underwriting Agreement
 
December 10, 2012
 
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 383 Madison Avenue New York, New York 10179
 
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 South College Street
Charlotte, NC 28202
 
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
. Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the Company), proposes, subject to the terms and conditions stated herein, to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in (the Underwriters), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of US$500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Companys 3.30% Senior Notes due 2022 (the Securities). J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the Representatives) in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities.
Introductory
Schedule A
 
The Securities will be issued pursuant to, and will form a separate series of senior debt securities under, an indenture, dated as of June 29, 1998 (the Base Indenture), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (as successor trustee to Bank One Trust Company, National Association, which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as indenture trustee (the Trustee). Certain terms of the Securities will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture (the Supplemental Indenture) to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the Indenture). The Securities will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the Depositary).
 
The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-168429), which contains a base prospectus (the Base Prospectus), to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of senior debt securities, including the Securities, of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the Securities Act), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the Registration Statement. The term Prospectus shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the Execution Time) by the parties hereto. The term Preliminary Prospectus shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Securities, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b). Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 3;25 p.m. on December 10, 2012 (the Initial Sale Time). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (EDGAR).
 
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is contained, included, described, or stated in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder (collectively, the Exchange Act), which is incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
 
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
 
. The Company hereby represents, warrants and covenants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a Representation Date) and agrees with each of the Underwriters as follows:
SECTION 1.
              
Representations and Warranties
 
. The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, are threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with. In addition, the Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the Trust Indenture Act).
(a)
               
Compliance with Registration Requirements
 
At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; provided, however, that, with respect to clause (ii) hereof, the Company makes no representations or warranties as to those parts of the Registration Statement which shall constitute Statements of Eligibility and Qualification on Form T-1 (the Form T-1) under the Trust Indenture Act. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
 
 
Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Securities will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
 
. The term Disclosure Package shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated December 10, 2012, (ii) the issuer free writing prospectuses as defined in Rule 433 of the Securities Act (each, an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other free writing prospectus that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package and identified in Annex II hereto. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
(b)
              
Disclosure Package
 
. The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (collectively, the Incorporated Documents) (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission complied and will comply, as the case may be, as of their respective dates of filing, in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the Exchange Act Regulations) and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
(c)
               
Incorporated Documents
 
 
. (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement, (ii) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Securities Act (whether such amendment was by post effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), (iii) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c) of the Securities Act) made any offer relating to the Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163 of the Securities Act, and (iv) as of the Execution Time, the Company was and is a well known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. The Registration Statement is an automatic shelf registration statement, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that automatically became effective not more than three years prior to the Execution Time; the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form and the Company has not otherwise ceased to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration form.
(d)
              
Company is a Well-Known Seasoned Issuer
 
. (i) At the time of filing the Registration Statement and (ii) as of the Execution Time (with such date being used as the determination date for purposes of this clause (ii)), the Company was not and is not an Ineligible Issuer (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act), without taking account of any determination by the Commission pursuant to Rule 405 of the Securities Act that it is not necessary that the Company be considered an Ineligible Issuer.
(e)
               
Company is not an Ineligible Issuer
 
. Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Securities under this Agreement or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
(f)
               
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
. The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters distribution of the Securities, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annexes I or II hereto or the Registration Statement.
(g)
              
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company
 
 
. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(h)
              
The Underwriting Agreement
 
. The Securities to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company have been duly authorized by the Company and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered as provided in the Indenture and paid for as provided herein, will be duly and validly issued and outstanding and will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
(i)
                
Authorization of the Securities
 
. The Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee, constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
(j)
                
Authorization of the Base Indenture
 
(k). The Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company, and assuming due authorization, execution and delivery by the Trustee will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles.
              
Authorization of the Supplemental Indenture
 
. The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the respective descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(l)
                
Description of the Securities and the Indenture
 
. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package: (i) there has been no material adverse change, or any development that would be reasonably likely to have a material adverse change, in the condition, financial or otherwise, or in the earnings, business, or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity (any such change is called a Material Adverse Change); and (ii) none of the Company or any of its subsidiaries has entered into any transaction or agreement, in each case, outside the ordinary course of business, that, taken together with any other related or similar transactions or agreements, is material to the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or incurred any liability or obligation, indirect, direct or contingent, that, taken together with any other related or similar liability or obligation, indirect, direct or contingent, is material to the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as one entity.
(m)
            
No Material Adverse Change
 
 
. Ernst & Young LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to the audited financial statements of the Company for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011 and supporting schedules filed with the Commission and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent public or certified public accountants with respect to the Company within the meaning of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
(n)
              
Independent Accountants for the Company
 
. Deloitte and Touche LLP, who have expressed their opinion with respect to certain financial statements of CSC Credit Services, Inc. filed by the Company with the Commission and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, are independent auditors with respect to CSC Credit Services, Inc. within the meaning of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are a registered public accounting firm with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
(o)
              
Independent Auditors for CSC Credit Services, Inc.
 
. The financial statements, together with the related schedules and notes of the Company, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly the consolidated financial position of the Company and its subsidiaries, as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and cash flows for the periods specified. Such financial statements comply as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States (GAAP) applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto. The pro forma financial information and the related notes thereto included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus has been prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidance with respect to pro forma financial information, and the assumptions underlying such pro forma financial information are, reasonable and are set forth in each of the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The interactive data in eXtensible Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement fairly presents the information called for in all material respects and has been prepared in accordance with the Commissions rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
(p)
              
Preparation of the Financial Statements
 
.To the best knowledge of the Company, the historical financial statements of CSC Credit Services, Inc., together with the related notes thereto, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus fairly present the financial position of CSC Credit Services, Inc. as of and at the dates indicated and the results of operations and cash flows of CSC Credit Services, Inc. for the periods specified, in each case in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as may be expressly stated in the related notes thereto.
(q)
              
Financial Statements of CSC Credit Services, Inc.
 
 
.The Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under each of this Agreement, the Securities, and the Indenture. Each significant subsidiary of the Company has been duly incorporated, is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and operate its properties and to conduct its business in all material respects as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. Each of the Company and each significant subsidiary is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the condition, financial or otherwise, or on the earnings, business, or operations of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole, the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the performance by the Company of its obligations under the Securities or the Indenture (a Material Adverse Effect). All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of each significant subsidiary of the Company have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and non-assessable and are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim. For purposes of this Agreement, the term significant subsidiary shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the Securities Act.
(r)
                
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company and its Subsidiaries
 
. The authorized, issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company is as set forth in the column entitled Actual under the caption Capitalization in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus as of the date set forth therein (other than for subsequent issuances of capital stock, if any, pursuant to existing reservations, agreements or employee benefit plans or upon exercise of outstanding options). All of the outstanding shares of the Companys common stock (the Common Stock) have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable.
(s)
               
Capitalization and Other Capital Stock Matters
 
. Neither the Company nor any of its significant subsidiaries is in violation of its charter or by-laws or is in default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time, would be in default) (Default) under any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, note, contract, franchise, lease or other instrument to which the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them may be bound (including, without limitation, the Companys Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of February 18, 2011, 4.45% Senior Notes due December 2014, 6.30% Senior Notes due 2017, 6.90% Debentures due July 2028 and 7.0% Senior Notes due 2037), or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries is subject (each, an Existing Instrument), except for such Defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. The Companys execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture, and the issuance and delivery of the Securities, and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action and (i) will not result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company or any significant subsidiary, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any Existing Instrument, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company or any significant subsidiary, except, in each case, for such violations, conflicts, breaches, Defaults, liens, charges or encumbrances as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect, and except for such consents the failure of which to obtain would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency, is required for the Companys execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture, and the issuance and delivery of the Securities, or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and by the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except such as may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws and from the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Underwriters.
(t)
                
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required
 
 
. Except as described or incorporated by reference in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Companys knowledge, threatened (i) against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (ii) which has as the subject thereof any property owned by the Company or any of its subsidiaries, where in any such case there is a reasonable possibility that such action, suit or proceeding might be determined adversely to the Company or such subsidiary and any such action, suit or proceeding, if so determined adversely, would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. No material labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the best of the Companys knowledge, is threatened or imminent, that, individually or in the aggregate, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
(u)
              
No Material Actions or Proceedings
 
. The Company and its subsidiaries own license, or possess the trademarks, trade names, patent rights, copyrights, licenses, approvals, trade secrets and other similar rights (collectively, Intellectual Property Rights) reasonably necessary to conduct their businesses as now conducted by them, except such as to which the failure to so own, license, or possess would not have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has received any written notice of infringement or conflict with asserted Intellectual Property Rights of others, which infringement or conflict, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, finding or ruling, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
(v)
              
Intellectual Property Rights
 
 
The Company and each subsidiary possess such valid certificates, authorizations or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct their respective businesses, except those the failure of which to possess would not have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company nor any subsidiary has received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of, or non-compliance with, any such certificate, authorization or permit which, singly or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would have a Material Adverse Effect.
(w)
            
All Necessary Permits, Etc.
 
. All material federal, state and foreign income and franchise tax returns required to be filed by the Company and any of its subsidiaries have been filed, other than those filings being contested in good faith, and all material taxes required to be paid by any of them and, if due and payable, any related or similar assessment, fine or penalty levied against any of them, have been paid, other than those taxes which are being contested in good faith or the nonpayment of which could not have a Material Adverse Effect. The Company has made adequate charges, accruals and reserves in the applicable financial statements referred to in Section 1(p) above in respect of all federal, state and foreign income and franchise taxes for all periods as to which the tax liability of the Company or any of its consolidated subsidiaries has not been finally determined.
(x)
              
Tax Law Compliance
 
. The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described under the caption Use of Proceeds in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (collectively, the Investment Company Act).
(y)
              
Company Not an Investment Company
 
. The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would be reasonably likely to cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Securities.
(z)
               
No Price Stabilization or Manipulation
 
. The Company and its subsidiaries maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act.
(aa)
           
Companys Accounting System
 
. The Company maintains a system of accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that: (i) transactions are executed in accordance with managements general or specific authorization; (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets; (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with managements general or specific authorization; (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences; and (v) interactive data in eXtensbile Business Reporting Language included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package is prepared in accordance with the Commission's rules and guidelines applicable thereto.
(bb)
          
Internal Controls and Procedures
 
 
. Since the end of the Companys most recent audited fiscal year, there has been (i) no material weakness in the Companys internal control over financial reporting (whether or not remediated) and (ii) no change in the Companys internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Companys internal control over financial reporting.
(cc)
           
No Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls
 
. There is and has been no failure on the part of the Company and, to the Companys knowledge, any of the Companys directors or officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with any provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated in connection therewith (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), including Section 402 related to loans and Sections 302 and 906 related to certifications.
(dd)
         
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
 
. With respect to the stock options (the Stock Options) granted pursuant to the stock-based compensation plans of the Company and its subsidiaries (the Company Stock Plans), (i) each Stock Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code so qualifies, (ii) each grant of a Stock Option was duly authorized no later than the date on which the grant of such Stock Option was by its terms to be effective (the Grant Date) by all necessary corporate action, including, as applicable, approval by the board of directors of the Company (or a duly constituted and authorized committee thereof) and any required stockholder approval by the necessary number of votes or written consents, and the award agreement governing such grant (if any) was duly executed and delivered by each party thereto, (iii) each such grant was made in accordance with the terms of the Company Stock Plans, the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws and regulatory rules or requirements, including the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and any other exchange on which Company securities are traded, (iv) the per share exercise price of each Stock Option was equal to the fair market value of a share of common stock on the applicable Grant Date and (v) each such grant was properly accounted for in accordance with GAAP in the financial statements (including the related notes) of the Company and disclosed in the Companys filings with the Commission in accordance with the Exchange Act and all other applicable laws.
(ee)
           
Stock Options
 
. None of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by such persons of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the FCPA), including, without limitation, making use of the mails or any means or instrumentality of interstate commerce corruptly in furtherance of an offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of the payment of any money, or other property, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to any foreign official (as such term is defined in the FCPA) or any foreign political party or official thereof or any candidate for foreign political office, in contravention of the FCPA, and the Company, its subsidiaries and, to the knowledge of the Company, its affiliates have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure continued compliance therewith.
(ff)
            
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments
 
 
. The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the Money Laundering Laws) and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the best knowledge of the Company, threatened.
(gg)
          
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws
 
. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (OFAC); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the offering, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
(hh)
          
No Conflict with OFAC Laws
 
. Except as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, the Company (i) is in compliance with all laws and permits relating to the protection of human health and safety, the environmental or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants (collectively, Environmental Laws), and (ii) has received all permits required of it under applicable Environmental Laws to conduct their respective businesses, except where such noncompliance or such failure to receive required permits would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
(ii)
              
Compliance with Environmental Laws
 
. The Company and its subsidiaries and any employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (collectively, ERISA)) established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or their ERISA Affiliates (as defined below) are in compliance in all material respects with ERISA. ERISA Affiliate means, with respect to the Company or a subsidiary, any member of any group of organizations described in Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations and published interpretations thereunder (the Code) of which the Company or such subsidiary is a member. No reportable event (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) for which advance notice is required to be made to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation under the regulations under ERISA has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any employee pension benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA) established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates. No employee pension benefit plan subject to Title IV of ERISA established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates, if such employee pension benefit plan were terminated, would have any amount of unfunded benefit liabilities (as defined in Section 4001(a)(18) of ERISA), except for the amount of unfunded benefit liabilities, if any, as would not, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither the Company, its subsidiaries nor any of their ERISA Affiliates has incurred or reasonably expects to incur any liability under (i) Title IV of ERISA with respect to termination of, or withdrawal from, any employee pension benefit plan or (ii) Sections 412, 4971, 4975 or 4980B of the Code that would, in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect. Each employee pension benefit plan established or maintained by the Company, its subsidiaries or any of their ERISA Affiliates that is intended to be qualified under Section 401 of the Code is so qualified and the Company is not aware of any circumstances likely to cause the loss of such qualification.
(jj)
              
ERISA Compliance
 
 
Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
 
SECTION 2.
              
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Securities.
 
. The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Securities upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company the aggregate principal amount of Securities set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Securities which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 18 hereof, at a purchase price of 99.198% of the principal amount of the Securities, plus accrued interest, if any, from December 17, 2012 to the Closing Date (as defined below), payable on the Closing Date.
(a)
               
The Securities
 
. Delivery of certificates for the Securities in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment of the purchase price therefor shall be made at the offices of Simpson Thacher and Bartlett LLP, 425 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10017 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 a.m. New York City time, on December 17, 2012 (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 18), or such other time and date as the Underwriters shall designate by notice to the Company (the time and date of such closing are called the Closing Date).
(b)
              
The Closing Date
 
 
. The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Securities as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
(c)
               
Public Offering of the Securities
 
. Payment for the Securities shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
(d)
              
Payment for the Securities
 
It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own accounts and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Securities that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Securities to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
 
. The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Securities at the Closing Date against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Securities shall be in such denominations specified by the Representatives in writing at least one business day preceding the Closing Date and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of the Depositary, and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
(e)
               
Delivery of the Securities
 
SECTION 3.
              
Additional Covenants
. The Company further covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
 
. The Company, subject to Section 3(b), will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B of the Securities Act Regulations, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm the notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period, (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 and will take such steps as it deems necessary to ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing under Rule 424 was received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that it was not, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
(a)
               
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests
 
 
. During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Securities by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 of the Securities Act Regulations (the Prospectus Delivery Period), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement (including any filing under Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act Regulations), or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, the Company shall furnish to the Representatives for review a copy of each such document a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, and the Company shall not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel to the Underwriters reasonably object.
(b)
              
Filing of Amendments
 
. The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Securities Act Regulations and the Exchange Act and the Exchange Act Regulations so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Securities as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of counsel to the Underwriters or for the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time it is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either such counsel, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) promptly notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) will promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendments or supplements as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendments or supplements as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
(c)
               
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
. The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, signed copies of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and signed copies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
(d)
              
Delivery of Registration Statements
 
 
. The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S T.
(e)
               
Delivery of Prospectuses
 
. The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify the Securities for offer and sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the Blue Sky or state securities laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives shall reasonably request, shall comply with such laws and shall maintain such qualifications and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Securities. The Company shall not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or a dealer in securities or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation in respect of doing business in an jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification of (or any such exemption relating to) the Securities for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification or exemption, the Company shall use its best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
(f)
               
Blue Sky Compliance
 
. The Company shall use the net proceeds received by it from the sale of the Securities sold by it in the manner described under the caption Use of Proceeds in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
(g)
              
Use of Proceeds
 
. The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its best efforts to permit the Securities to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
(h)
              
The Depositary
 
. During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the New York Stock Exchange all reports and documents required to be filed under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(i)
                
Periodic Reporting Obligations
 
 
. During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open put equivalent position within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Securities or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Securities (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Securities).
(j)
                
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities
 
. The Company will prepare a final term sheet containing only a description of the Securities, and will file such term sheet pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheet, the Final Term Sheet). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement. A form of the Final Term Sheet for the Securities is attached hereto as Exhibit B.
(k)
              
Final Term Sheet
 
. The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Company and the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a free writing prospectus (as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act) required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company under Rule 433 of the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses included in Annex I to this Agreement. Any such free writing prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives and the Company is hereinafter referred to as a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus. The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 of the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that (a) is not an issuer free writing prospectus as defined in Rule 433, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Securities or their offering, (ii) information permitted by Rule 134 under the Securities Act or (iii) information that describes the final terms of the Securities or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k).
(l)
                
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
 
. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company receives from the Commission a notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) or otherwise ceases to be eligible to use the automatic shelf registration statement form, the Company will (i) promptly notify the Representatives, (ii) promptly file a new registration statement or post effective amendment on the proper form relating to the Securities, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, (iii) use its best efforts to cause such registration statement of post effective amendment to be declared effective and (iv) promptly notify the Representatives of such effectiveness. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate to permit the public offering and sale of the Securities to continue as contemplated in the registration statement that was the subject of the Rule 401(g)(2) notice or for which the Company has otherwise become ineligible. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new registration statement or post effective amendment, as the case may be.
(m)
            
Notice of Inability to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Statement Form
 
 
. The Company agrees to pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Securities within the time required by and in accordance with Rule 456(b)(1) and 457(r) of the Securities Act.
(n)
              
Filing Fees
 
. During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company will comply with all applicable securities laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and use its best efforts to cause the Companys directors and officers, in their capacities as such, to comply with such laws, rules and regulations, including, without limitation, the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
(o)
              
Compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley Act
 
. The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to cause or result in, or that has constituted or might reasonably be expected to constitute, under the Exchange Act or otherwise, the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Securities.
(p)
              
No Manipulation of Price
 
The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
 
SECTION 4.
              
Payment of Expenses
. The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder, including, (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Securities (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Securities, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Companys counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, this Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities, (v) all filing fees, attorneys fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification of) all or any part of the Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(f) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection with a Blue Sky Survey or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Securities, (vii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities with the ratings agencies, (viii) any filing fees incident to, and any reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with the review by FINRA, if any, of the terms of the sale of the Securities, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Securities by the Depositary for book-entry transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
 
 
SECTION 5.
              
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
. The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Securities as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
 
. The Registration Statement shall have become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of counsel to the Underwriters and the Company shall not have received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) of the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) (or any required post-effective amendment providing such information shall have been filed and declared effective in accordance with the requirements of Rule 430A).
(a)
               
Effectiveness of Registration Statement
 
. On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from each of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, and Deloitte and Touche LLP, independent auditors for CSC Credit Services, Inc., a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Underwriters, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants comfort letters to an underwriter, delivered according to Statement of Auditing Standards Nos. 72 and 76 (or any successor bulletins), with respect to the audited and unaudited financial statements and certain other financial information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
(b)
              
Accountants Comfort Letters
 
. If the Registration Statement and/or the offering of the Securities has been filed with FINRA for review, FINRA shall not have raised any objection with respect to the fairness and reasonableness of the underwriting terms and arrangements.
(c)
               
No Objection
 
. For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
(d)
              
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change
 
there shall not have occurred any Material Adverse Change that, in the judgment of the Representatives, makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the completion of the offering or the sale of and payment for the Securities; and
(i)
                
 
 
there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization as such term is defined for purposes of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act.
(ii)
              
 
. On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Alston & Bird LLP, counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-1 . Such opinion shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
(e)
               
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
 
. On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Kent E. Mast, Esq., Chief Legal Officer for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, the form of which is attached as Exhibit A-2. Such opinion shall be rendered to the Underwriters at the request of the Company and shall so state therein.
(f)
               
Opinion of Chief Legal Officer
 
. On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Simpson Thacher and Bartlett LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
(g)
              
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
 
. On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, on behalf of the Company, dated as of the Closing Date, to the effect set forth in subsection (d)(ii) of this Section 5, and further to the effect that:
(h)
              
Officers Certificate
 
the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose has been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
(i)
                
 
the Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the Securities Act objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement;
(ii)
              
 
for the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date there has not occurred any Material Adverse Change;
(iii)
            
 
the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of the Closing Date; and
(iv)
            
 
 
the Company has complied with all the agreements and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Date.
(v)
              
 
. On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from each of Ernst & Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm for the Company, and Deloitte and Touche LLP, independent auditors for CSC Credit Services, Inc., a letter dated such date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
(i)
                
Bring-down Comfort Letters
 
. On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Securities as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
(j)
                
Additional Documents
 
If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that Section 4, Section 6, Section 8, Section 9 and Section 11 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
 
SECTION 6.
              
Reimbursement of Underwriters Expenses
. If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Securities on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal, inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof (other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Section 18, or the occurrence of an event specified in clause (ii), (iii), or (vi) of Section 10), the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Securities, including but not limited to fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
 
SECTION 7.
              
Effectiveness of this Agreement
. This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties thereto.
 
SECTION 8.
              
Indemnification.
 
. The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; , that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
(a)
               
Indemnification of the Underwriters
provided, however
 
 
. Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any legal and other expenses as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in (i) the last paragraph on the front cover of the Preliminary Prospectus and Prospectus regarding delivery of the Securities, (ii) the fourth full paragraph under the caption Underwriting in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and (iii) the eighth full paragraph under the caption Underwriting in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus; and the Underwriters confirm that such statements are correct. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8 shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
(b)
              
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers
 
 
. Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that a conflict may arise between the positions of the indemnifying party and the indemnified party in conducting the defense of any such action or that there may be legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assume such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party or parties. Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying partys election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless (i) the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel (together with local counsel), approved by the indemnifying party (the Representatives in the case of Section 8(b) and Section 9), representing the indemnified parties who are parties to such action) or (ii) the indemnifying party shall not have employed counsel satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, in each of which cases the fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
(c)
               
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures
 
 
. The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by Section 8 hereof, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (x) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (y) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d)
              
Settlements
 
SECTION 9.
              
Contribution
. If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate initial offering price of the Securities as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
 
The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8, any legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim. The provisions set forth in Section 8 with respect to notice of commencement of any action shall apply if a claim for contribution is to be made under this Section 9; provided, however, that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under Section 8 for purposes of indemnification.
 
The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public.
 
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments set forth opposite their names in . For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee or agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
Schedule A
 
SECTION 10.
              
Termination of this Agreement
. Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Companys securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or by the New York Stock Exchange, or trading in securities generally on either the Nasdaq Stock Market or the New York Stock Exchange shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any federal, New York or Georgia authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity, or any change in the United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Securities in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Securities; (iv) since the execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, there shall have occurred any Material Adverse Change the effect of which, in the judgment of the Representatives, makes it impracticable or inadvisable to proceed with the completion of the offer or the sale of and payment for the Securities; (v) the Company shall have sustained a loss by strike, fire, flood, earthquake, accident or other calamity of such character as in the judgment of the Representatives may interfere materially with the conduct of the business and operations of the Company regardless of whether or not such loss shall have been insured; or (vi) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States. Any termination pursuant to this Section 10 shall be without liability on the part of the Company to any Underwriter, except that the Company shall be obligated to reimburse the expenses of the Underwriters pursuant to Sections 4 and 6 hereof, any Underwriter to the Company, or of any party hereto to any other party except that the provisions of Section 8 and Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
 
 
SECTION 11.
          
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery
. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or the Company or any of its or their partners, officers, directors, employees or any controlling person, as the case may be, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Securities sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
 
SECTION 12.
          
Selling Restrictions
. Each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, represents, warrants and agrees with the Company that it will comply with the selling restrictions listed in Annex III hereto in respect of the offering, sale and delivery of the Securities.
 
SECTION 13.
          
Notices
. All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
 
If to the Underwriters:
 
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10179
 
Facsimile: 212-834-6081
Attention: High Grade Syndicate Desk  3rd floor
 
and
 
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
301 S. College Street
Charlotte, NC 28202
 
 
Facsimile: 704-410-0326
Attention: Transaction Management
 
with a copy to:
 
Simpson Thacher and Bartlett LLP
425 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017
 
Facsimile: (212) 455-2502
Attention: Andrew Keller, Esq.
 
If to the Company:
 
Equifax Inc.
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.
Atlanta, GA 30309
 
Facsimile: (404) 885-8988
Attention: Lee Adrean, Corporate Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Kent E. Mast, Corporate Vice President and Chief Legal Officer
 
with a copy to:
 
Alston & Bird LLP
1201 West Peachtree Street
Atlanta, GA 30309
 
Facsimile: (404) 253-8348
Attention: M. Hill Jeffries, Esq.
 
Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
 
SECTION 14.
          
Successors
. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 18 hereof, and to the benefit of the agents, employees, officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8 and Section 9, and in each case their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successors and the controlling person referred to in Sections 8 and 9 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters and the Company and their respective successor, and the controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm, corporation or employees. The term successors shall not include any purchaser of the Securities from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
 
 
SECTION 15.
          
Partial Unenforceability
. The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
 
SECTION 16.
          
Governing Law Provisions
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE.
 
SECTION 17.
          
Consent to Jurisdiction
. Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby (Related Proceedings) may be instituted in the federal courts of the United States of America located in the City and County of New York or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City and County of New York (collectively, the Specified Courts), and each party irrevocably submits to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail to such partys address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
 
SECTION 18.
          
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters
. If any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on the Closing Date, and the aggregate number of Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate number of the Securities to be purchased on such date, the other non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the number of Securities set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate number of Securities set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Underwriters with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase all of the Securities which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Securities and the aggregate number of Securities with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate number of Securities to be purchased on the Closing Date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Securities are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Section 4, Section 6, Section 8 and Section 9 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
 
 
As used in this Agreement, the term Underwriter shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 18. Any action taken under this Section 18 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
 
SECTION 19.
          
No Fiduciary Duty
. The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arms length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
 
SECTION 20.
          
General Provisions
. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Table of Contents and the section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
 
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement among the Underwriters and the Company in accordance with its terms.
 
Very truly yours,
 
EQUIFAX INC.
 
By:
/s/ Mark E. Young
Name: Mark E. Young
Title: Senior Vice President and Treasurer
 
Equifax Inc. - Underwriting Agreement  Company Signature Page
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
 
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC
WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
Acting as Representatives of the
several Underwriters named in
the attached Schedule A
 
By: J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
 
By:
/s/ Robert Bottamedi
Name: Robert Bottamedi
Title: Vice President
 
 
By: Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
 
By:
/s/ Carolyn Hurley
Name: Carolyn Hurley
Title: Director
 
  
SCHEDULE A
 
 
 
ANNEX I
 
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
 
Final Term Sheet dated December 10, 2012
 
 
ANNEX II
 
Other Free Writing Prospectuses Forming Part of the Disclosure Package
 
None.
 
 
ANNEX III
 
Selling Restrictions
 
European economic area
 
In relation to each Member State of the European Economic Area which has implemented the Prospectus Directive (each, a Relevant Member State), each underwriter has represented and agreed that with effect from and including the date on which the Prospectus Directive is implemented in that Relevant Member State it has not made and will not make an offer of notes which are the subject of the offering contemplated by this prospectus supplement to the public in that Relevant Member State other than:
 
 
 
For the purposes of this provision, the expression an offer of notes to the public in relation to any notes in any Relevant Member State means the communication in any form and by any means of sufficient information on the terms of the offer and the notes to be offered so as to enable an investor to decide to purchase or subscribe for the notes, as the same may be varied in that Relevant Member State by any measure implementing the Prospectus Directive in that Relevant Member State, the expression Prospectus Directive means Directive 2003/71/EC (and amendments thereto, including the 2010 PD Amending Directive), and includes any relevant implementing measure in the Relevant Member State and the expression 2010 PD Amending Directive means Directive 2010/73/EU.
 
United Kingdom
 
Each underwriter has represented and agreed that:
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A-1
 
The opinion of Alston & Bird LLP, counsel for the Company, to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(e) of the Underwriting Agreement, shall be substantially to the effect that:
 
The Company has corporate power and authority to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Securities.
(i)
                
 
The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
(ii)
              
 
The Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) constitutes a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, moratorium and other laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors generally, and to the limitation that the enforceability thereof (including by means of specific performance) may be subject to certain equitable defenses and to the discretion of the court before which proceedings may be brought, including traditional equitable defenses such as waiver, laches and estoppel; good faith and fair dealing; reasonableness; materiality of the breach; impracticability or impossibility of performance; and the effect of obstruction or failure to perform or otherwise act in accordance with an agreement by any person other than the obligor thereunder; (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) (the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception).
(iii)
            
 
The Securities are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Company for issuance and sale pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement and the Indenture and, when duly executed, authenticated, issued, and delivered in the manner provided in the Indenture (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee) and paid for as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the Bankruptcy and Equity Exception, and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
(iv)
            
 
The statements in the Base Prospectus under the caption Description of Debt Securities and in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions Description of the Notes, insofar as such statements constitute summaries of legal matters, documents, or legal proceedings referred to therein, fairly summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
(v)
              
 
The statements in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences, insofar as such statements purport to constitute a summary of the U.S. federal tax laws referred to therein, fairly summarize, in all material respects, the U.S. federal tax laws referred to therein.
(vi)
            
 
 
No consent, approval, authorization, or order of, or registration, qualification, or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency, is required for the Companys execution, delivery and performance of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture or the Supplemental Indenture or the issuance and delivery of the Securities, except such as may be required under applicable state securities or blue sky laws, and by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, in connection with the purchase and resale of the Securities by the Underwriters.
(vii)
          
 
The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification and contribution sections of the Underwriting Agreement, as to which we express no opinion) will not (a) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of the Company; or (b) to the best of our knowledge, result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation, or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company.
(viii)
        
 
The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described under the caption: Use of Proceeds in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, an investment company within the meaning of the Investment Company Act.
(ix)
            
 
The Base Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act.
(x)
              
 
In addition, we confirm that we have participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company, the Underwriters representatives and the Underwriters counsel at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus were discussed and, although we have not independently verified and are not passing upon and do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or fairness of the statements contained in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (other than as specified above), on the basis of the foregoing (relying as to materiality to the extent we deem appropriate upon facts provided to us by officers or other representatives of the Company and without independent verification of such facts), no facts have come to our attention that causes us to believe that (a) the Registration Statement, as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement (I) did not comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, and (II) contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, (b) the Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time (as defined in the third paragraph of the Underwriting Agreement), contained any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or (c) the Prospectus, as of its date or as of the Closing Date, contained or contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. We express no opinion with respect to the financial statements, notes and schedules, other financial and statistical data and assessments of or reports on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus.
 
 
The foregoing opinions are limited to the federal laws of the United States of America, the laws of the State of Georgia, and with respect to the matters set forth in paragraphs (iii) and (iv), also the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
EXHIBIT A-2
 
The opinion of Kent E. Mast, Esq., Chief Legal Officer of the Company, to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(f) of the Underwriting Agreement, shall be substantially to the effect that:
 
The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Georgia and has corporate power and authority to own, lease and license its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
(i)
                
 
The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(ii)
              
 
Each Significant Subsidiary (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, has corporate power and authority to own, lease and license its properties and to conduct its business in all material respects as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and, to the best of my knowledge, is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(iii)
            
 
All of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary has been duly authorized and validly issued, is fully paid and non-assessable and is owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or, to the best of my knowledge, any pending or threatened claim.
(iv)
            
 
The execution and delivery of the Underwriting Agreement, the Base Indenture and the Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the performance by the Company of its obligations thereunder (other than performance by the Company of its obligations under the indemnification and contribution sections of the Underwriting Agreement, as to which I express no opinion) will not (a) result in any violation of the provisions of the charter or by-laws of any Significant Subsidiary; (b) constitute a breach of, or default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its Significant Subsidiaries pursuant to any agreement or instrument of indebtedness described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, or to the best of my knowledge, any other material Existing Instrument, which breach, default, lien, charge or encumbrance would, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect; or (c) to the best of my knowledge, result in any violation of any law, administrative regulation, or administrative or court decree applicable to any Significant Subsidiary.
(v)
              
 
 
The Securities and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
(vi)
            
 
The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules therein, as to which I express no opinion), when they were filed with the Commission, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
(vii)
          
 
To the best of my knowledge, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary is in violation of its charter or by-laws or any law, administrative regulation or administrative or court decree applicable to the Company or any Significant Subsidiary, and to the best of my knowledge, neither the Company nor any Significant Subsidiary is in default in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any material Existing Instrument, except in each such case for such violations or defaults as would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Effect.
(viii)
        
 
The foregoing opinions are limited to the laws of the State of Georgia and applicable federal laws of the United States of America.
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
Filed Pursuant to Rule 433
under the Securities Act of 1933
Registration Statement No. 333-168429
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus,
dated December 10, 2012
EQUIFAX INC.
 
Final Term Sheet
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Note: A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
 
**It is expected that delivery of the notes will be made against payment therefor on or about December 17, 2012, which is the fifth business day following the date hereof (such settlement cycle being referred to as T+5). Pursuant to Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, trades in the secondary market generally are required to settle in three business days unless the parties to any such trade expressly agree otherwise. Accordingly, purchasers who wish to trade the notes on the date of pricing or the next succeeding business day will be required, by virtue of the fact that the notes initially will settle in T+5, to specify an alternative settlement cycle at the time of any such trade to prevent failed settlement. Purchasers of the notes who wish to trade the notes on the date of pricing and the next succeeding business day should consult their own advisors.
 
 
 
 
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates.  Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering.  You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov.  Alternatively, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling J.P. Morgan Securities LLC at 1-212-834-4533 or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll free at 1-800-326-5897.
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
EQUIFAX INC.
ISSUER
 
AND
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
TRUSTEE
 
 
FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
DATED AS OF DECEMBER 17, 2012
 
  
FOURTH SUPPLEMENT TO INDENTURE,
DATED AS OF JUNE 29, 1998, BETWEEN
EQUIFAX INC. AND
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
(formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago)
 
 
FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
, dated as of December 17, 2012, between EQUIFAX INC., a Georgia corporation (the ) and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A. (FORMERLY KNOWN AS THE BANK OF NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY, N.A. AS SUCCESSOR TO BANK ONE TRUST COMPANY, N.A., WHICH WAS SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST TO THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO), a corporation organized under the laws of the United States of America, as trustee (the ) under the Original Indenture (as hereinafter defined).
FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Issuer
Trustee
 
RECITALS
 
, the Issuer executed and delivered its Indenture (the ), dated as of June 29, 1998, to the Trustee to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes debt securities evidencing its unsecured indebtedness.
WHEREAS
Original Indenture
 
, the Original Indenture provides that by means of a supplemental indenture, the Issuer may create one or more series of its debt securities and establish the form and terms and conditions thereof.
WHEREAS
 
, the Issuer desires to issue a series of senior debt securities under the Original Indenture, and has duly authorized the creation and issuance of such series of debt securities and the execution and delivery of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture to modify the Original Indenture and provide certain additional provisions as hereinafter described;
WHEREAS
 
, the Issuer and the Trustee deem it advisable to enter into this Fourth Supplemental Indenture for the purposes of establishing the terms of such series of debt securities and providing for the rights, obligations and duties of the Trustee with respect to such debt securities;
WHEREAS
 
, all conditions and requirements of the Original Indenture necessary to make this Fourth Supplemental Indenture a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms have been performed and fulfilled by the parties hereto and the execution and delivery thereof have been in all respects duly authorized by the parties hereto.
WHEREAS
 
, the Board of Directors of the Issuer, acting through authority delegated to certain of its executive officers, has approved the creation of the Notes and the form, terms and conditions thereof;
WHEREAS
 
, concurrently with the execution hereof, the Issuer has delivered an Officers Certificate and has caused its counsel to deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel; and
WHEREAS
 
, the consent of Holders to the execution and delivery of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture is not required, and all other actions required to be taken under the Original Indenture with respect to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture have been taken.
WHEREAS
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE IT IS AGREED:
 
ARTICLE ONE
 
CREATION OF THE NOTES
 
.  Pursuant to the terms hereof and of the Original Indenture, the Issuer hereby creates a series of its debt securities which shall be known as the 3.30% Senior Notes due 2022 (the ), which Notes shall be deemed Securities for all purposes under the Original Indenture.
Section 1.1.  Designation of Series
Section 3.01
Notes
 
.  The definitive form of the Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth in  attached hereto, which is incorporated herein and made part hereof.  The Notes shall bear interest, be payable and have such other terms as are stated in the form of Note and in the Original Indenture, as supplemented by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.  The Notes shall be issued in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Section 1.2.  Form and Denomination of Notes
Exhibit A
 
.  Subject to hereof, the aggregate principal amount of the Notes that may be issued under this Fourth Supplemental Indenture is initially limited to $500,000,000.  The Notes may, upon the execution and delivery of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture or from time to time thereafter, be executed by the Issuer and delivered to the Trustee for authentication, and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Notes upon the delivery of a Company Order.
Section 1.3.  Amount of Series
Section 1.10
 
.  The Notes are unsecured and shall rank equally among themselves and with all of the Issuers other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.
Section 1.4.  Rank
 
.  No sinking fund shall be provided with respect to the Notes.
Section 1.5.  No Sinking Fund
 
. 
Section 1.6.  Optional Redemption
 
(a)Except as otherwise may be specified in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture and in the Notes, Article Thirteen of the Original Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. 
               
 
(b)Prior to September 15, 2022, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the ) equal to the greater of:
              
Optional Redemption Price
 
(i)100% of the principal amount accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date; and
                
plus
 
(ii)the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate 30 basis points, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to but excluding the Redemption Date.
              
plus
plus
 
(c)On or after September 15, 2022, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at the Issuers option, for an amount in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount any accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the Redemption Date.
               
plus
 
 
(d)The Issuer will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date. If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to this , the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depository shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time on such date as is then permitted by the rules of the Depositary for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
              
Section 1.6
provided
provided, 
 
. 
Section 1.7.  Special Mandatory Redemption
 
(a)Except as otherwise may be specified in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture and in the Notes, Article Thirteen of the Original Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes. 
               
 
(b)The Notes shall be redeemed, in whole and not in part, in the event that either (each, a ):
              
Special Mandatory Redemption Triggering Event
 
 
 
(c)Upon the occurrence of a Special Mandatory Redemption Triggering Event, the Issuer shall pay, prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date or at such later time on such date as is then permitted by the rules of the Depositary for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note), the sum of 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed (the ), , in addition to such Special Mandatory Redemption Price, any accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding such Special Mandatory Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest whose maturity is on or prior to the Special Mandatory Redemption Date shall be payable prior to 12:00 noon, New York time on the applicable Interest Payment Date to the holders of such Notes registered as such at the close of business on the applicable regular record date pursuant to the Notes and the Original Indenture (as supplemented by this Fourth Supplemental Indenture).
               
Special Mandatory Redemption Price
plus
 
(d)On or before 10:00 a.m., New York Time, on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date for the Notes, the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee or a Paying Agent, funds sufficient to pay the Special Mandatory Redemption Price of the Notes to be redeemed on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date, and (except if the date fixed for redemption shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest. If the Issuer complies with the preceding sentence, on and after the Special Mandatory Redemption Date for the Notes, interest shall cease to accrue on the Notes and all rights under the Notes (other than with regard to the right to receive the Special Mandatory Redemption Price accrued and unpaid interest) shall terminate.
              
plus
 
(e)The Issuer, or the Trustee on its behalf, will cause the notice of the Special Mandatory Redemption to be mailed promptly after the occurrence of the Special Mandatory Redemption Triggering Event, to each holder at its registered address (a ). The Special Mandatory Redemption Notice shall state the information set forth in, and shall be subject to the terms and conditions of, Section 13.04 of the Original Indenture. Notice of redemption having been given as provided in the Indenture, the Notes called for redemption shall, on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Special Mandatory Redemption Price, accrued and unpaid interest to but excluding the Special Mandatory Redemption Date.
               
Special Mandatory Redemption Notice
plus
 
 
.  For all purposes of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture:
Section 1.8. Definitions
 
(a)Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings set forth in the Original Indenture;
               
 
(b)a term defined anywhere in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture (including the exhibits hereto) has the same meaning throughout;
              
 
 
 
 
 means the transaction contemplated by the Purchase Agreement.
Acquisition
 
 means, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
 
 means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term () of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
Remaining Life
 
 means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
 means a clearing agency registered under of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for the Notes.
Depository
Section 17A
 
 means an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
Independent Investment Banker
 
 means that certain Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of December 1, 2012, by and among Equifax Information Services LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Issuer, and CSC Credit Services, Inc., pursuant to which the Acquisition shall be consummated.
Purchase Agreement
 
 means, with respect to any optional redemption of Notes pursuant to hereof, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Original Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
Section 1.6
 
 
 means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, a Primary Treasury Dealer (defined below) selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and any other two Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Issuer and their respective successors, that if any of the foregoing or any such successor shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
 means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
 means, with respect to the Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due at the related Redemption Date but before such redemption; provided, however, that if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, with respect to the Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
 
 means any redemption effected pursuant to hereof.
Special Mandatory Redemption
Section 1.7
 
 means the 15 calendar day following the earlier to occur of (1) June 30, 2013 and (2) the date that the Purchase Agreement is terminated.
Special Mandatory Redemption Date
th
 
 means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated H.15(519) or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption Treasury Constant Maturities, for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year shall be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Issuer on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
 
.  The Notes shall not be convertible or exchangeable for other securities or property.
Section 1.9.  Notes Not Convertible or Exchangeable
 
. The Notes shall be issued as Registered Securities in permanent global form, without coupons.  The initial Depositary for the Notes shall be The Depository Trust Company.
Section 1.10.  Issuance of Notes; Selection of Depository
 
 
  .From time to time subsequent to the date hereof, without the consent of the Holders of the Notes, the Issuer may create and issue additional Notes (the ) under the terms of the Original Indenture and this Fourth Supplemental Indenture (and without need to execute any additional supplemental indenture).  The Additional Notes shall be issued as part of the existing series of Notes issued pursuant to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture and shall have terms identical in all material respects (except for the initial interest accrual date, the initial Interest Payment Date, and the issue price) to any Outstanding Notes and shall be treated together with any Outstanding Notes as a single issue of Notes under the Original Indenture and this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.  Any Additional Notes issued hereunder shall rank equally and ratably with the Notes originally issued pursuant to this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, shall have the same CUSIP number and shall trade interchangeably with such Notes and shall otherwise constitute Notes for all other purposes hereof.  Any Additional Notes may be issued pursuant to authorization provided by one or more Board Resolutions.  No Additional Notes shall be issued at any time that there is an Event of Default under the Original Indenture with respect to the Notes that has occurred and is continuing.
Section 1.11.
Issuance of Additional Notes
  
Additional Notes
 
.  In addition to notes, the Issuer may, from time to time, issue other series of debt securities under the Original Indenture consisting of debentures, notes or other unsecured, unsubordinated evidences of indebtedness, but such other series will be separate from and independent of the notes.  The Original Indenture does not limit the amount of debt securities or any other debt (whether secured or unsecured) which the Issuer may incur.
Section 1.12.  Issuance of Additional Debt Securities
 
ARTICLE TWO
 
APPOINTMENT OF THE TRUSTEE FOR THE NOTES
 
.  Pursuant and subject to the Original Indenture, the Issuer hereby appoints The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), to act on behalf of the Holders of the Notes.  By execution, acknowledgment and delivery of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee hereby accepts appointment as trustee with respect to the Notes, and agrees to perform the duties and obligations of the Trustee with respect to the Notes upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Original Indenture and in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 2.1.  Appointment of Trustee; Acceptance by Trustee
 
.  Any rights, powers, duties and obligations by any provisions of the Original Indenture conferred or imposed upon the Trustee shall, insofar as permitted by law, be conferred or imposed upon and exercised or performed by the Trustee with respect to the Notes.
Section 2.2.  Rights, Powers, Duties and Obligations of the Trustee
 
.  The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., in its capacity as Trustee, shall be afforded all of the rights, powers, immunities and indemnities of the Trustee as set forth in the Original Indenture as if such rights, powers, immunities and indemnities were specifically set forth herein.
Section 2.3.  Rights in Indenture Applicable to Trustee
 
ARTICLE THREE
 
CHANGE OF CONTROL OFFER
 
.
Section 3.1.  Change of Control Offer
 
 
(a)If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its option to redeem the Notes, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer (the ) to each Holder of the Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holders Notes on the terms set forth herein.
               
Change of Control Offer
 
(b)In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes repurchased, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes of this series repurchased to the date of repurchase (the ).  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Issuers option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, the Issuer shall mail a notice to Holders of the Notes describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Notes on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the ).  The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
              
plus
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
 
(c)In order to accept the Change of Control Offer, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, this Security together with the form entitled Election Form (which form is annexed hereto) duly completed, or a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange, or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth:
               
 
(i)the name of the Holder of the Note;
                
 
(ii)the principal amount of the Note;
              
 
(iii)the principal amount of the Note to be repurchased;
            
 
(iv)the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Note;
            
 
(v)a statement that the Holder is accepting the Change of Control Offer; and
              
 
(vi)a guarantee that the Note, together with the form entitled Election Form duly completed, will be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
            
 
(d)Any exercise by a Holder of its election to accept the Change of Control Offer shall be irrevocable. The Change of Control Offer may be accepted for less than the entire principal amount of the Notes, but in that event the principal amount of the Notes remaining outstanding after repurchase must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
              
 
 
(i)accept for payment all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
                
 
(ii)deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered; and
              
 
(iii)deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of this series properly accepted together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series or portions of such Notes being repurchased.
            
 
 
(f)The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and the third party purchases all Notes of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.  In addition, the Issuer shall not repurchase any Notes if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Original Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
               
 
(g)The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Notes as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes by virtue of any such conflict.
               
Exchange Act
 
.  For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities of this series, the following terms are applicable:
Section 3.2  Additional Definitions
 
 means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person (as that term is used in  of the Exchange Act) (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuers Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Issuers Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more Persons (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuers Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuers Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (as that term is used in  of the Exchange Act) (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
Change of Control
Section 13(d)(3)
Section 13(d)(3)
 
 means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
 
 means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Issuers Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Securities of this series were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuers proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 
 
 means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moodys and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade Rating
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc.
Moodys
 
 means (1) each of Moodys and S&P; and (2) if any of Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities of this series or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuers control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer (as certified by a resolution of the Issuers Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moodys or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
 
 means the rating on the Securities of this series is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Securities of this series are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Issuers intention to effect a Change of Control.
Rating Event
 
 means Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
 
 means, with respect to any specified person (as that term is used in  of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
Section 13(d)(3)
 
ARTICLE FOUR
 
DEFEASANCE
 
.  Pursuant to , and of the Original Indenture, provision is hereby made for both (i) defeasance of the Notes under of the Original Indenture and (ii) covenant defeasance of the Notes under , in each case, upon the terms and conditions contained in Article Fifteen of the Original Indenture.  For purposes of such defeasance or covenant defeasance, the term Government Obligations shall not include obligations referred to in the definition of such term in the Original Indenture which are not obligations of the United States or a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or an instrumentality thereof.
Section 4.1.  Defeasance Applicable to Notes
Sections 3.01(10)
15.01
15.02
Section 15.03
Section 15.04
 
ARTICLE FIVE
 
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES
 
.  The provisions of  of the Original Indenture shall not be applicable to the Notes.  As contemplated under and  of the Original Indenture, the following events, in addition to the events described in  and  to  of the Original Indenture, shall be Events of Default with respect to the Notes:
Section 5.1.  Events of Default
Section 5.01(2)
Section 3.01
Section 5.01(9)
Sections 5.01(1)
5.01(3)
(8)
 
 
(i)default in the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) the Notes when due at its maturity (including a failure to make a payment to purchase Notes tendered pursuant to a Change of Control Offer or Special Mandatory Redemption in respect of the Notes).
                
 
ARTICLE SIX
 
AMENDMENTS AND WAIVERS
 
.  Except as provided below, of the Original Indenture shall be applicable to the Notes.  After the Issuers obligation to purchase the Notes arises under Article Three of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Issuer shall not, without the consent of each of the Holders of the then Outstanding Notes, amend, change or modify in any material respect the Issuers obligation to make and consummate a Change of Control Offer in the event of a Change of Control Triggering Event or, after such Change of Control Triggering Event has occurred, modify any of the provisions or definitions with respect thereto.
Section 6.1.  Modification and Amendment with Consent of Holders of the Notes
Section 11.02
 
ARTICLE SEVEN
 
MISCELLANEOUS
 
.  Except as expressly modified or amended hereby, the Original Indenture continues in full force and effect and is in all respects confirmed, ratified and preserved.  This Fourth Supplemental Indenture and all its provisions shall be deemed a part of the Original Indenture in the manner and to the extent herein and therein provided.
Section 7.1.  Effect of Supplemental Indenture
 
.  Each and every term and condition contained in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture that modifies, amends or supplements the terms and conditions of the Original Indenture shall apply only to the Notes created hereby and not to any existing or future series of Securities established under the Original Indenture.
Section 7.2.  Application of Fourth Supplemental Indenture
 
.  Nothing contained in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be construed to confer upon any person other than a Holder of the Notes, the Issuer, the Trustee and the calculation agent any right or interest to avail itself, himself or herself as the case may be, of any benefit under any provision of the Original Indenture or this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 7.3.  Benefits of Fourth Supplemental Indenture
 
.  This Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be effective as of the date first above written and upon the execution and delivery hereof by each of the parties hereto.
Section 7.4.  Effective Date
 
.  This Fourth Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Section 7.5.  Governing Law
 
.  This Fourth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Section 7.6.  Counterparts
 
 
.  The Article and Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Section 7.7.  Effect of Headings
 
In case any provision in this Fourth Supplemental Indenture or in the Notes shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Section 7.8.  Separability Clause.  
 
.  The Issuer shall be deemed to have satisfied all of its obligations under this Fourth Supplemental Indenture upon compliance with the provisions of or , as applicable of the Original Indenture relating to defeasance of the Notes, to the extent set forth in and .
Section 7.9.  Satisfaction and Discharge
Section 15.03
Section 15.04
Sections 15.01
15.02
 
The Trustee makes no representation or warranty as to the validity or sufficiency of this Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Section 7.10.
 
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for special, indirect, or consequential loss or damage of any kind whatsoever (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action.
Section 7.11.
 
EACH OF THE ISSUER AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
Section 7.12. 
 
In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
Section 7.13. 
 
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, pdf, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods, provided, however, that the Trustee shall have received an incumbency certificate listing persons designated to give such instructions or directions and containing specimen signatures of such designated persons, which such incumbency certificate shall be amended and replaced whenever a person is to be added or deleted from the listing. If the Issuer elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic method) and the Trustee in its discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustees understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustees reliance upon and compliance with such instructions notwithstanding such instructions conflict or are inconsistent with a subsequent written instruction. The Issuer agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk or interception and misuse by third parties.
Section 7.14. 
 
 
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Fourth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
  
 
EXHIBIT A
 
[FACE OF NOTE]
 
THIS NOTE IS A SECURITY IN GLOBAL FORM (GLOBAL SECURITY) WITHIN THE MEANING OF OF THE ORIGINAL INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (THE DEPOSITORY) OR A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITORY, WHICH MAY BE TREATED BY THE ISSUER, THE TRUSTEE AND ANY AGENT THEREOF AS OWNER AND HOLDER OF THIS NOTE FOR ALL PURPOSES.
SECTION 2.03
 
UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION (DTC), TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL THIS CERTIFICATE IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN CERTIFICATED FORM, THIS CERTIFICATE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY DTC TO A NOMINEE THEREOF OR BY A NOMINEE THEREOF TO DTC OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF DTC OR BY DTC OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR OF DTC OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR.
 
 
[]
NO.
    
 
US294429AJ43
ISIN NO.
 
EQUIFAX INC.
 
3.30
% Senior Notes due 2022
 
Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the , which term includes any successor under the Original Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co. or its registered assigns, the principal sum of [] Dollars on December 15, 2022 (the Maturity Date), and to pay interest thereon from December 17, 2012 (or from the most recent interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for) in U.S. dollars semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year, each, an Interest Payment Date, commencing on June 15, 2013, and on the Maturity Date, at the rate of 3.30% per annum, until payment of said principal sum has been made or duly provided for.
Issuer
                       
 
The interest so payable and punctually paid or duly provided for on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date will be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on the Record Date for such payment, which will be June 1 and December 1 (regardless of whether such day is a Business Day (as defined below)).  Any interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such record date, and shall be paid to the Holder in whose name this Note (or one or more predecessor Notes) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest (which shall be not less than five Business Days (as defined below) prior to the date of the payment of such defaulted interest) established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Issuer to the Holders of the Notes not less than 15 days preceding such subsequent record date. Interest on this Note will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
The principal of this Note payable on the Maturity Date will be paid against presentation and surrender of this Note at the office or agency of the Issuer maintained for that purpose in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York.  The Issuer hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee in the City of New York as the office to be maintained by it where Notes may be presented for payment, registration of transfer, or exchange and where notices or demands to or upon the Issuer in respect of the Notes or the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof may be served.
 
Interest payable on this Note on any Interest Payment Date and on the Maturity Date, as the case may be, will be the amount of interest accrued from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date (or from and including December 17, 2012, in the case of the initial Interest Payment Date) to but excluding the applicable Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  If any Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date falls on a day that is not a Business Day (as defined below), the required payment of interest or principal or both, as the case may be, will be made on the next Business Day with the same force and effect as if it were made on the date such payment was due and no interest will accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date or the Maturity Date, as the case may be.  Business Day means any calendar day, that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
 
 
Payments of principal and interest in respect of this Note will be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
 
Reference is made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof.  Such further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as though fully set forth at this place.
 
This Note shall not be entitled to the benefits of the Original Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication hereon shall have been signed by the Trustee under such Indenture.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Issuer has caused this instrument to be signed manually or by facsimile by its authorized officers.
 
Dated as of December 17, 2012
 
 
 
 
TRUSTEES CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated herein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
[REVERSE OF NOTE]
 
EQUIFAX INC.
 
3.30% Senior Notes due 2022
 
This security is one of a duly authorized issue of debentures, notes, bonds, or other evidences of indebtedness of the Issuer (hereinafter called the ) of the series hereinafter specified, all issued or to be issued under and pursuant to an Indenture dated as of June 29, 1998 (hereinafter called the ), duly executed and delivered by the Issuer to The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as Trustee (hereinafter called the , which term includes any successor trustee under the Original Indenture with respect to the series of Securities of which this Note is a part), and a Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 17, 2012, between the Issuer and the Trustee (the ; the Original Indenture as modified and supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture is herein called the ) to which the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security reference is hereby made for a description of the rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties, and immunities thereunder of the Trustee, the Issuer, and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities may be issued in one or more series, which different series may be issued in various aggregate principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest (if any) at different rates, may be subject to different redemption provisions (if any), and may otherwise vary as provided in the Original Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto.  This security is one of a series designated as the 3.30% Senior Notes due 2022 of the Issuer, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000.
Securities
Original Indenture
Trustee
Fourth Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
 
In case an Event of Default with respect to this security shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal hereof together with accrued interest to the date of declaration, if any, may be declared, and upon such declaration shall become, due and payable, in the manner, with the effect, and subject to the conditions provided in the Original Indenture.
 
Except as otherwise may be specified herein or in the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, prior to September 15, 2022, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem to Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price (the ) equal to the greater of (i) 100% of the principal amount plus accrued an unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Redemption Date, and (ii) the sum of the present values of the Remaining Scheduled Payments of principal and interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate 30 basis points, accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to, but excluding, the Redemption Date.
Optional Redemption Price
plus
plus
 
On or after September 15, 2022, the Issuer shall have the right to redeem the Notes, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at the Issuers option, for an amount in cash equal to 100% of the principal amount any accrued and unpaid interest, including additional interest, if any, to, but excluding the Redemption Date.
plus
 
The Issuer will mail notice of such redemption to the registered holders of the Notes to be redeemed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date.  If Notes are only partially redeemed pursuant to the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Notes to be redeemed will be selected by the Trustee in such manner as in its sole discretion it shall deem appropriate and fair; , that if at the time of redemption the Notes to be redeemed are registered as a Global Note, the Depository shall determine, in accordance with its procedures, the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed held by each of its participants that holds a position in such Notes. The Optional Redemption Price shall be paid prior to 12:00 noon, New York time, on the Redemption Date or at such later time as is then permitted by the rules of the Depository for the Notes (if then registered as a Global Note); that the Issuer shall deposit with the Trustee an amount sufficient to pay the Optional Redemption Price by 10:00 a.m., New York time, on the date such Optional Redemption Price is to be paid.
provided
provided, 
 
 
Upon the occurrence of a Special Mandatory Redemption Triggering Event, the Issuer shall redeem the Notes in full on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date at a redemption price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Notes accrued and unpaid interest from the date of the initial issuance of the Notes, or the most recent Interest Payment Date, whichever is later, to but excluding the Special Mandatory Redemption Date.
plus
 
The Issuer, or the Trustee on the Issuers behalf, will cause notice of the Special Mandatory Redemption to be mailed promptly after the occurrence of the Special Mandatory Redemption Triggering Event to each Holder at its registered address. If funds sufficient to fund the Special Mandatory Redemption of all Notes to be redeemed on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date are deposited with the paying agent on or before the Special Mandatory Redemption Date and the other conditions set forth in Section 1.7 of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture have been satisfied, all of the Notes will be redeemed on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date and on and after such date the Notes will cease to bear interest and all rights under such Notes will terminate.
 
If a Change of Control Triggering Event occurs, unless the Issuer has exercised its option to redeem the Securities of this series, the Issuer shall be required to make an offer (the Change of Control Offer) to each Holder of the Notes of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of that Holders Notes on the terms set forth herein. In the Change of Control Offer, the Issuer shall be required to offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series repurchased, accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Notes of this series repurchased to the date of repurchase (the ).  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Triggering Event or, at the Issuers option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control, a notice shall be mailed to Holders of the Notes of this series describing the transaction that constitutes or may constitute the Change of Control Triggering Event and offering to repurchase such Securities on the date specified in the notice, which date shall be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed (the Change of Control Payment Date).  The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to purchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Triggering Event occurring on or prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
plus
Change of Control Payment
 
In order to accept the Change of Control Offer, the Holder must deliver to the Paying Agent, at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date, this Security together with the form entitled Election Form (which form is annexed hereto) duly completed, or a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange, or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States setting forth:
 
(i) the name of the Holder of the Note;
 
(ii) the principal amount of the Note;
 
(iii) the principal amount of the Note to be repurchased;
 
 
(iv) the certificate number or a description of the tenor and terms of the Note;
 
(v) a statement that the Holder is accepting the Change of Control Offer; and
 
(vi) a guarantee that the Note, together with the form entitled Election Form duly completed, will be received by the Paying Agent at least three Business Days prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
Any exercise by a Holder of its election to accept the Change of Control Offer shall be irrevocable. The Change of Control Offer may be accepted for less than the entire principal amount of the Notes, but in that event the principal amount of the Notes remaining outstanding after repurchase must be equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.  On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuer shall, to the extent lawful (1) accept for payment all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer, (2) deposit with the Paying Agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Notes of this series or portions of such Notes properly tendered, and (3) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Notes of this series properly accepted together with an Officers Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of Notes of this series or portions of such Securities being repurchased.
 
The Issuer shall not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Issuer and the third party purchases all Notes of this series properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.  In addition, the Issuer shall not repurchase any Securities of this series if there has occurred and is continuing on the Change of Control Payment Date an Event of Default under the Original Indenture, other than a default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment upon a Change of Control Triggering Event.
 
The Issuer shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ), and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities of this series as a result of a Change of Control Triggering Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Notes of this series, the Issuer shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities of this series by virtue of any such conflict.
Exchange Act
 
The following terms have the meanings given to them in this Note:
 
 means the transaction contemplated by the Purchase Agreement.
Acquisition
 
 means, unless otherwise specified, any calendar day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday in New York, New York and on which commercial banks are open for business in New York, New York.
Business Day
 
 means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person (as that term is used in  of the Exchange Act) (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Issuers Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Issuers Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Issuer and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more Persons (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Issuers Board of Directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction shall not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Issuer becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Issuers Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (as that term is used in  of the Exchange Act) (other than the Issuer or a Subsidiary), other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
Change of Control
Section 13(d)(3)
Section 13(d)(3)
 
 
 means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
Change of Control Triggering Event
 
 means the United States Treasury security selected by an Independent Investment Banker as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term (Remaining Life) of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
 
 means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (A) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (B) if the Independent Investment Banker obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such Quotations or, if only one such Quotation is obtained, such Quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
 
 means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Issuers Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Issuers proxy statement in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
Continuing Directors
 
 means a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Exchange Act that is designated to act as Depository for the Notes.
Depository
 
 means an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Issuer, which may be one of the Reference Treasury Dealers.
Independent Investment Banker
 
 means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moodys and BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Issuer.
Investment Grade Rating
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc.
Moodys
 
 
 means that certain Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of December 1, 2012, by and among Equifax Information Services LLC, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Issuer, and CSC Credit Services, Inc., pursuant to which the Acquisition shall be consummated.
Purchase Agreement
 
 means (1) each of Moodys and S&P; and (2) if any of Moodys or S&P ceases to rate the Securities of this series or fails to make a rating of such Securities publicly available for reasons outside of the Issuers control, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization within the meaning of Section 3(a)(62) of the Exchange Act selected by the Issuer (as certified by a resolution of the Issuers Board of Directors) as a replacement agency for Moodys or S&P, or all of them, as the case may be.
Rating Agencies
 
 means the rating on the Notes is lowered by each of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by each of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Securities of this series is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the Issuers intention to effect a Change of Control.
Rating Event
 
 means, with respect to any optional redemption of Notes pursuant to Section 1.6 of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the date fixed for such redemption pursuant to the Original Indenture and such Notes.
Redemption Date
 
 means J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, a Primary Treasury Dealer (defined below) selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and any other two Primary Treasury Dealers selected by the Issuer and their respective successors, that if any of the foregoing or any such successor shall cease to be a primary U.S. government securities dealer in New York City (a ), the Issuer will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
Reference Treasury Dealer
provided
Primary Treasury Dealer
 
 means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Independent Investment Banker, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Independent Investment Banker by the Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m. on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
 
 means, with respect to the Notes to be redeemed, the remaining scheduled payments of the principal thereof and interest thereon that would be due at the related Redemption Date but before such redemption; provided, however, that if such Redemption Date is not an interest payment date, with respect to the Notes, the amount of the next succeeding scheduled interest payment thereon will be deemed to be reduced by the amount of interest accrued thereon to such Redemption Date.
Remaining Scheduled Payments
 
 means Standard & Poors Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
S&P
 
 means any redemption effected pursuant to Section 1.7 of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Special Mandatory Redemption
 
 means the 15 calendar day following the earlier to occur of (1) June 30, 2013 and (2) the date that the Purchase Agreement is terminated.
Special Mandatory Redemption Date
th
 
 
 means any event specified in Section 1.7 of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture.
Special Mandatory Redemption Triggering Event
 
 means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the yield, under the heading which represents the average for the immediately preceding week, appearing in the most recently published statistical release designated H.15(519) or any successor publication which is published weekly by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and which establishes yields on actively traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to constant maturity under the caption Treasury Constant Maturities, for the maturity corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue (if no maturity is within three months before or after the Remaining Life, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Comparable Treasury Issue shall be determined and the Treasury Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight line basis, rounding to the nearest month), (ii) if the period from the Redemption Date to the Maturity Date of the Notes to be redeemed is less than one year, the weekly average yield on actually traded United States Treasury securities adjusted to a constant maturity of one year will be used, or (iii) if such release (or any successor release) is not published during the week preceding the calculation date or does not contain such yields, the rate per annum equal to the semiannual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, calculated using a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date. The Treasury Rate shall be calculated by the Issuer on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date. The Trustee shall not be responsible for any such calculation.
Treasury Rate
 
 means, with respect to any specified person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
Voting Stock
 
The Original Indenture contains provisions permitting the Issuer and the Trustee, with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time outstanding of all series to be affected (voting as one class), evidenced as provided in the Original Indenture, to execute supplemental indentures adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of the Original Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Security so affected, (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or installment of interest, if any, on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the interest thereon or any premium payable upon redemption thereof, or change the Stated Maturity of or reduce the amount of any payment to be made with respect to any Coupon, or change the Currency or Currencies in which the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on such Security is denominated or payable, or change the place where any such amount is payable, or reduce the amount of the principal of a Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Original Indenture, or adversely affect the right of repayment or repurchase, if any, at the option of the Holder, or reduce the amount of, or postpone the date fixed for, any payment under any sinking fund or analogous provisions for any Security, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or limit the obligation of the Issuer to maintain a paying agency outside the United States for payment on Bearer Securities as provided in Section 12.03 of the Original Indenture, or (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or (3) modify any of the provisions of Sections 11.02, 5.13 or 12.09 of the Original Indenture, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of the Original Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of each series affected thereby.
 
 
It is also provided in the Original Indenture that, with respect to certain defaults or Events of Default regarding the Securities of any series, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount outstanding of the Securities of such series (or, in the case of certain defaults or Events of Default, all series of Securities) may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series (or all of the Securities, as the case may be) waive any such past default or Event of Default and its consequences, prior to any declaration accelerating the maturity of such Securities, or, subject to certain conditions, may rescind a declaration of acceleration and its consequences with respect to such Securities. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security (unless revoked as provided in the Original Indenture) shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of the security and any securities that may be issued in exchange or substitution herefor, irrespective of whether or not any notation thereof is made upon this security or such other securities.
 
No reference herein to the Original Indenture and no provision of this security or of the Original Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Issuer, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security in the manner, at the respective times, at the rate and in the coin or currency herein prescribed.
 
This Security is issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.  Securities may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of securities of this series of other authorized denominations at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in the manner and subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, but without the payment of any service charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
 
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of Securities at the office or agency of the Issuer in The Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, one or more new Securities of the same series of authorized denominations in an equal aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange therefor, subject to the limitations provided in the Original Indenture, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
 
The Issuer, the Trustee or any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee may deem and treat the Person in whose name this security is registered as the absolute owner of this security (whether or not this security shall be overdue and notwithstanding any notation of ownership or other writing hereon), for the purpose of receiving payment of, or on account of, the principal hereof and Make-Whole Amount, if any, and subject to the provisions on the face hereof, interest hereon, and for all other purposes, and neither the Issuer nor the Trustee nor any authorized agent of the Issuer or the Trustee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
The Original Indenture and each Security shall be deemed to be a contract under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with the laws of such state, except as may otherwise be required by mandatory provisions of law.
 
Capitalized terms used herein which are not otherwise defined shall have the respective meanings assigned to them in the Original Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto relating to this security.
 
 
OPTION OF HOLDER TO ELECT PURCHASE
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Note purchased by the Issuer pursuant to Article Three of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, state the amount in principal amount that you elect to have purchased: $
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an eligible guarantor institution meeting the requirements of the Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program (STAMP) or such other signature guarantee program as may be determined by the Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
Alston
&
Bird
LLP
One Atlantic Center
1201 West Peachtree Street
Atlanta, GA 30309-3424
 
404-881-7000
Fax: 404-253-8348
www.alston.com
  
December 10, 2012
 
Equifax Inc.
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as counsel to Equifax Inc., a Georgia corporation (the Company), in connection with (1) the filing of the Companys Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-168429) (the Registration Statement) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), on July 30, 2010 for the purpose of registering under the Securities Act the Companys debt securities, preferred stock, common stock and warrants to be offered from time to time by the Company on terms to be determined at the time of the offering, and (2) the issuance by the Company of its 3.30% Senior Notes due 2022 (the Notes) as described in the Companys Prospectus dated July 30, 2010 (the Prospectus), which is a part of the Registration Statement, and Prospectus Supplement dated December 10, 2012 (the Prospectus Supplement).  The Notes will be issued under an indenture dated as of June 29, 1998, by and between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (formerly known as the Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor to Bank One Trust Company, N.A., which was successor in interest to The First National Bank of Chicago), as trustee (the Trustee), as supplemented by a Fourth Supplemental Indenture to be dated as of December 17, 2012 by and between the Company and the Trustee (together, the Indenture). The Notes will be sold pursuant to an Underwriting Agreement dated December 10, 2012 between the Company and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as the representatives of the underwriters named therein. This opinion is being furnished in accordance with the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K under the Securities Act.
 
 
Atlanta  Brussels  Charlotte  Dallas  Los Angeles  New York  Research Triangle  Silicon Valley  Ventura County  Washington, D.C.
December 10, 2012
Page 2
  
As counsel to the Company, we have examined the Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company, the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company, records of proceedings of the Board of Directors and the Pricing Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company deemed by us to be relevant to this opinion, the Registration Statement, the Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement, the Indenture and the form of Note.  We also have examined such other relevant documents, and have made such other examinations of matters of law and of fact, as we have considered appropriate or advisable for purposes of this opinion. In our examination, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all natural persons, the authenticity of all documents submitted to us as original documents and the conformity to original documents of all documents submitted to us as certified, conformed, facsimile, electronic or photostatic copies.  As to questions of fact material to this opinion, we have relied upon the statements as to factual matters contained in the above-referenced documents and statements of officers of the Company, and we have made no independent investigation with regard thereto.
 
To the extent that the obligations of the Company under the Indenture may depend upon such matters, we have assumed for purposes of this opinion that: (i) the Trustee is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization; (ii) the Trustee is duly qualified to engage in the activities contemplated by the Indenture; (iii) the Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Trustee and constitutes the valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms; (iv) the Trustee is in compliance, with respect to any actions the Trustee may take under the Indenture, with all applicable laws and regulations; and (v) the Trustee has the requisite organizational and legal power and authority to perform its obligations under the Indenture.
 
Our opinion set forth below is subject to the effects of (i) bankruptcy, fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium, liquidation, conservatorship, and similar laws, and limitations imposed under judicial decisions related to or affecting creditors rights and remedies generally, (ii) general equitable principles, regardless of whether the issue of enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law, and principles limiting the availability of the remedy of specific performance, (iii) concepts of good faith, fair dealing and reasonableness, and (iv) unconscionability.  Further, requirements in the Indenture and the Notes specifying that provisions thereof may only be waived in writing may not be valid, binding and enforceable to the extent that an oral agreement or implied agreement by trade practice or course of conduct has been created modifying any provision of such documents.
 
Our opinion set forth below is limited to the laws of the State of New York as it relates to the enforceability of documents, agreements and instruments referred to herein.  We do not express any opinion herein concerning any other laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or regulations.
 
This opinion is delivered to the Company solely for its use in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, may not be used, circulated, quoted or otherwise relied upon by any other person or for any other purpose, and may not be disclosed, quoted, filed with a governmental agency other than the Commission or otherwise referred to without our prior written consent. No opinion may be implied or inferred beyond the opinion expressly stated in the immediately following paragraph.  Our opinion expressed herein is as of the date hereof, and we hereby expressly disclaim any obligation to supplement this opinion for any changes that may occur after the date hereof with respect to any matters of fact or law addressed herein.
 
 
December 10, 2012
Page 3
  
Based upon the foregoing and subject to the limitations, qualifications, exceptions and assumptions set forth herein, it is our opinion that upon execution and delivery of the Fourth Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the Trustee, due execution of the Notes by the Company, due authentication thereof by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and issuance and delivery thereof against payment therefor as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes will constitute legally binding obligations of the Company.
 
We consent to the filing of this opinion letter as an exhibit to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2012 and to the incorporation by reference of this opinion letter in the Registration Statement and to the use of our name under the heading Legal Matters in the Prospectus and Prospectus Supplement. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
  
 
 

 
 
 
Exhibit 12.1
 
EQUIFAX INC.
 
 
                 
Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
(amounts in millions of dollars)                        
                         
 

  
 
Exhibit 99.1
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W.
Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
Equifax Prices $500 Million, 10-Year Debt Offering
 
 Equifax Inc. (NYSE: ) announced today that it has priced a registered public debt offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.30% Senior Notes due December 15, 2022, at a price of approximately 99.848% of par to yield 3.318% to maturity. The offering is expected to close on December 17, 2012 and is subject to customary closing conditions.
ATLANTA, December 11, 2012
EFX
 
Equifax plans to use the net proceeds from the offering to fund a portion of its previously announced and pending acquisition (the Acquisition) of certain credit services assets from CSC Credit Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Computer Sciences Corporation.
 
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. are joint book-running managers for the debt offering.
 
Information About the Offering
 
This offering is being made pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement filed by Equifax on July 30, 2010 and only by means of a prospectus supplement and an accompanying base prospectus. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus supplement, the base prospectus and other documents incorporated by reference in those documents for more complete information about Equifax and the offering.
 
Copies of the prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus may be obtained from the active book-running managers: J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10179, Attention: Investment Grade Syndicate Desk  3 floor, telephone: 1-212-834-4533; or Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Attention: Capital Markets Client Support, 1525 West W.T. Harris Blvd., NC0675, Charlotte, NC 28262, e-mail: cmclientsupport@wellsfargo.com, or by calling toll-free: 1-800-326-5897.
rd
 
Electronic copies of the prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus are also available from the Securities and Exchange Commission's website at www.sec.gov.
 
 
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any of the securities nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
 
About Equifax
 
Equifax is a global leader in consumer, commercial and workforce information solutions, providing businesses of all sizes and consumers with information they can trust. We organize and assimilate data on more than 500 million consumers and 81 million businesses worldwide, and use advanced analytics and proprietary technology to create and deliver customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Equifax operates or has investments in 18 other countries and is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Its common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol EFX. For more information, please visit www.equifax.com.
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this press release that relate to Equifaxs future plans, objectives, expectations, performance, events and the like, including statements concerning the expected use of the net proceeds of the offering and the expected closing date of the offering, may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Future events, risks and uncertainties, individually or in the aggregate, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Those events, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions and other factors that materially impact the demand for and pricing of securities and the capital markets generally or that otherwise prevent us from completing the proposed public offering on the terms indicated, our ability to satisfy all conditions to closing and to successfully consummate the Acquisition, our ability to integrate the acquired business and achieve the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Acquisition, and certain other factors discussed under Item 1A, Risk Factors in Equifaxs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Equifax assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made.
 


