FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20121024163758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): October 24, 2012
 
EQUIFAX INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(404) 885-8000
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 24, 2012, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2012. A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date: October 24, 2012
 
Exhibit Index
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W. Atlanta, Georgia 30309
  
NEWS RELEASE
 
Contact:
 
Equifax Reports Record Third Quarter 2012 Results
 
-- Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today announced financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. The company reported revenue of $543.9 million in the third quarter of 2012, an 11 percent increase from the third quarter of 2011 and a 12 percent increase in local currency.
ATLANTA, October 24, 2012
 
Third quarter diluted EPS attributable to Equifax was $On a non-GAAP basis, adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax, excluding the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, net of tax, was $0.75, up 16 percent from the third quarter of 2011. Results for the quarter included $3.3 million in discrete income tax benefits and $3.7 million in severance expense in our International business unit to better align resources with our future needs. Neither the tax benefits nor the severance was anticipated at the beginning of the quarter.
0.64, an increase of 18 percent from the third quarter of 2011.
 
"While mortgage activity remains strong, the majority of our growth continues to come from core non-mortgage markets and strategic initiatives, as our investments in new product innovations, vertical market focus, and penetration of new markets continue to pay off," said Richard F. Smith, Equifax's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "At this time, we expect the mortgage market to remain strong for the next few quarters. I am also optimistic that the momentum we have established will continue as we move into 2013."
 
Third Quarter 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS)
Total revenue was $233.3 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to $202.0 million in the third quarter of 2011, an increase of 15 percent.
 
 
Operating margin for USCIS was 36.9 percent in the third quarter of 2012 compared to 36.6 percent in the third quarter of 2011.
 
International
Total revenue was $121.0 million in the third quarter of 2012, a 2 percent increase from the third quarter of 2011 and a 6 percent increase on a local currency basis.
 
 
impact of current period severance charges, operating margin for the third quarter of 2012 was 30.4 percent.
Operating margin for International was 27.4 percent in the third quarter of 2012 compared to 29.3 percent in the third quarter of 2011. Excluding the pre-tax
Refer to Question #2 in the Common Questions and Answers attached for further information.
 
Workforce Solutions
Total revenue was $117.0 million in the third quarter of 2012, a 14 percent increase over the third quarter of 2011.
 
 
Operating margin for Workforce Solutions was 24.4 percent in the third quarter of 2012 compared to 23.0 percent in the third quarter of 2011.
 
North America Personal Solutions
Revenue was $51.4 million, a 13 percent increase from the third quarter of 2011.
Operating margin was 32.1 percent compared to 32.8 percent in the third quarter of 2011.
 
North America Commercial Solutions
Revenue was $21.2 million, down 2 percent in U.S. dollars and 1 percent in local currency compared to the third quarter of 2011. Operating margin was 18.8 percent compared to 23.6 percent in the third quarter of 2011.
 
 
 
Fourth Quarter 2012 Outlook
 
Based on the current level of domestic and international business activity and current foreign exchange rates as well as continued strength in mortgage activity, consolidated revenue for the fourth quarter of 2012 is expected to be up 8 to 10 percent from the year-ago quarter. Fourth quarter 2012 adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, is expected to be between $0.72 and $0.76.
 
About Equifax
 
Equifax is a global leader in consumer, commercial and workforce information solutions, that provides
businesses of all sizes and consumers with insight and information they can trust. Equifax organizes and assimilates data on more than 500 million consumers and 81 million businesses worldwide, and uses advanced analytics and proprietary technology to create and deliver customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Equifax operates or has investments in 18 countries and is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Its common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol EFX. For more information, please visit .
www.equifax.com
 
Earnings Conference Call and Audio Webcast
 
In conjunction with this release, Equifax will host a conference call tomorrow, October 25, 2012, ) via a live audio webcast. To access the webcast, go to the Investor Center of our website at . The discussion will be available via replay at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the webcast. This press release is also available at that website.
at 8:30 a.m. (EDT
www.equifax.com
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This earnings release presents
operating revenue excluding the results of our Brazilian operations from Equifax Inc., International, and Latin America revenue. The release also presents net income and diluted EPS attributable to Equifax which excludes the loss on the deconsolidation of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense, net of tax. These are important financial measures for Equifax but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as an alternative measure of operating revenue or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related notes are presented in the Q&A. This information can also be found under Investor Center/GAAP/Non-GAAP Measures on our website at .
www.equifax.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains forward-looking statements or forward-looking information. These statements can be identified by expressions of belief, expectation or intention, as well as statements that are not historical fact. These statements are based on certain factors and assumptions including with respect to foreign exchange rates, expected growth, results of operations, performance, business prospects and opportunities and effective tax rates. While the company believes these factors and assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available, they may prove to be incorrect.
 
Several factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to actions taken by us, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment and the demand for Equifax's products and services. Other risk factors include our ability to successfully develop and market new products and services, respond to pricing and other competitive pressures, complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments and achieve targeted cost efficiencies; risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data; changes in, and the effects of, laws and regulations and government policies governing our business, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in particular the establishment of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with authority to write rules impacting the business of, conduct examinations of, and enforce the laws and regulations it writes against credit reporting companies, and related regulations, federal or state responses to identity theft concerns; adverse or uncertain economic conditions and changes in credit and financial markets; the European sovereign debt crisis; the recent downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt and political concerns over related budgetary matters, exchange rates; timing and amount of capital expenditures; changes in capital markets and corresponding effects on the companys investments and benefit plan obligations; earnings exchange rates and the decisions of taxing authorities, all of which could affect our effective tax rates; and potential adverse developments in new and pending legal proceedings or governments investigations. Additional risks and uncertainties can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 under captions Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements are given only as at the date of this release and the company disclaims any obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
Operating revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
  
 
 
 
 
nm - not meaningful
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2012 results using 2011 exchange rates.
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
During the third quarter of 2012, we recorded $3.7 million of employee severance charges ($2.4 million, net of tax) in our International business unit. Excluding these charges, the operating margin was 25.0% for Equifax Inc. and 30.4% for International for the current period.
 
Our effective tax rate was 33.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2012, down from 36.2% for the same period in 2011. The 2012 rate decreased due to lower foreign income taxes and the impact of discrete tax items. The rate for the current quarter benefited from $3.3 million of discrete tax benefits in excess of our expectation at the beginning of the quarter.
 
Depreciation and amortization are as follows:
 
 
The U.S. dollar impact on operating revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
nm - not meaningful
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2012 results using 2011 exchange rates.
 
 
Notes to Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures
 
 During the second quarter of 2011, the Company completed the merger of our Brazilian business with and into Boa Vista Servicos, S.A. (BVS) in exchange for a 15 percent equity interest in BVS. The Company recorded a $27.8 million loss on the transaction. Management believes excluding the loss from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, as compared to 2012, since a loss of such an amount is not comparable among the periods. This is consistent with how our management reviews and assesses Equifaxs historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
Loss on the deconsolidation of Brazilian business
 
- We calculate these financial measures by excluding the loss on the deconsolidation of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense from the determination of net income attributable to Equifax in the calculation of diluted EPS. These financial measures are not prepared in conformity with GAAP. Management believes
Diluted EPS and net income from attributable to Equifax, adjusted for the loss on the deconsolidation of Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense
that these measures are useful because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and other items that are not comparable when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquisition-related intangible assets and items that impact comparability.
 
- Management believes excluding the Brazilian revenue from the calculation of operating revenue, on a non-GAAP basis, is
Adjusted operating revenue, excluding the results of our Brazilian operations
useful because it allows investors to evaluate the Companys growth on a basis consistent with the current composition of our business.
 
 


