FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20120725162225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported): July 25, 2012
 
EQUIFAX INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:     
(404) 885-8000
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communication pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 25, 2012, Equifax Inc. issued a press release disclosing financial results for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2012. A copy of the text of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 25, 2012
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
The following exhibit is being filed with this report:
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
Contact:
 
  
Equifax Reports Record Second Quarter 2012 Results
 
 Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) today announced financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The company reported revenue of $535.8 million in the second quarter of 2012, a 10 percent increase from the second quarter of 2011. On a non-GAAP basis, second quarter revenue was up 14 percent in U.S. dollars and 15 percent in local currency, excluding Brazilian operating results due to the deconsolidation of Brazil in the second quarter of 2011.
ATLANTA, July 25, 2012
 
Second quarter diluted EPS attributable to Equifax was $On a non-GAAP basis, adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax, excluding the loss on the deconsolidation of Brazil and the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, net of tax, was $0.74, up 21 percent from the second quarter of 2011.
0.62.
 
"Broad-based revenue growth and operating performance were ahead of our expectations in the second quarter as our four largest business segments continued to execute well against their strategic objectives," said Richard F. Smith, Equifax's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "While mortgage activity continues to be strong, we do expect it to slow down later in 2012. However, the core non-mortgage revenue growth continues to be within the range of our long term business model as our investments in new product innovation and key strategic growth initiatives continue to pay off."
 
Second Quarter 2012 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Consumer Information Solutions (USCIS)
Total revenue was $230.1 million in the second quarter of 2012 compared to $194.0 million in the second quarter of 2011, an increase of 19 percent.
 
 
Operating margin for USCIS was 38.3 percent in the second quarter of 2012 compared to 36.5 percent in the second quarter of 2011.
 
International
Total revenue was $119.5 million in the second quarter of 2012, a 9 percent decrease from the second quarter of 2011. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding Brazil, revenue grew 4 percent on a reported basis and 9 percent on a local currency basis.
 
 
Operating margin for International was 29.2 percent in the second quarter of 2012 compared to 26.1 percent in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Workforce Solutions
Total revenue was $115.2 million in the second quarter of 2012, a 20 percent increase over the second quarter of 2011.
 
 
Operating margin for Workforce Solutions was 23.4 percent in the second quarter of 2012 compared to 21.6 percent in the second quarter of 2011.
 
North America Personal Solutions
Revenue was $50.7 million, a 12 percent increase from the second quarter of 2011.
Operating margin was 29.8 percent compared to 27.7 percent in the second quarter of 2011.
 
North America Commercial Solutions
Revenue was $20.3 million, down 2 percent in U.S. dollars and 1 percent in local currency compared to the second quarter of 2011. Operating margin was 14.0 percent, compared to 20.9 percent in the second quarter of 2011.
 
  
Third Quarter 2012 Outlook
 
Based on the current level of domestic and international business activity and current foreign exchange rates as well as continued strength in mortgage activity, consolidated revenue for the third quarter of 2012 is expected to be up 9 to 11 percent from the year-ago quarter. Third quarter 2012 adjusted EPS attributable to Equifax, which excludes the impact of acquisition-related amortization expense, is expected to be between $0.71 and $0.74.
 
About Equifax
 
 is a global leader in consumer, commercial and workforce information solutions, that provides
Equifax
businesses of all sizes and consumers with insight and information they can trust. Equifax organizes and assimilates data on more than 500 million consumers and 81 million businesses worldwide, and uses advanced analytics and proprietary technology to create and deliver customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Equifax operates or has investments in 18 countries and is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Its common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol EFX. For more information, please visit .
www.equifax.com
 
Earnings Conference Call and Audio Webcast
 
In conjunction with this release, Equifax will host a conference call tomorrow, July 26, 2012, ) via a live audio webcast. To access the webcast, go to the Investor Center of our website at . The discussion will be available via replay at the same site shortly after the conclusion of the webcast. This press release is also available at that website.
at 8:30 a.m. (EDT
www.equifax.com
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
This earnings release presents
operating revenue excluding the results of our Brazilian operations from Equifax Inc., International, and Latin America revenue. The release also presents net income and diluted EPS attributable to Equifax which excludes acquisition-related amortization expense, net of tax. These are important financial measures for Equifax but are not financial measures as defined by GAAP.
 
These non-GAAP financial measures should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measures and are not presented as an alternative measure of operating revenue or EPS as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures and related notes are presented in the Q&A. This information can also be found under Investor Center/GAAP/Non-GAAP Measures on our website at .
www.equifax.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This release contains forward-looking statements or forward-looking information. These statements can be identified by expressions of belief, expectation or intention, as well as statements that are not historical fact. These statements are based on certain factors and assumptions including with respect to foreign exchange rates, expected growth, results of operations, performance, business prospects and opportunities and effective tax rates. While the company believes these factors and assumptions to be reasonable based on information currently available, they may prove to be incorrect.
 
 
Several factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including, but not limited to actions taken by us, including restructuring or strategic initiatives (including capital investments or asset acquisitions or dispositions), as well as from developments beyond our control, including, but not limited to, changes in worldwide and U.S. economic conditions that materially impact consumer spending, consumer debt and employment and the demand for Equifax's products and services. Other risk factors include our ability to successfully develop and market new products and services, respond to pricing and other competitive pressures, complete and integrate acquisitions and other investments and achieve targeted cost efficiencies; risks relating to illegal third party efforts to access data; changes in, and the effects of, laws and regulations and government policies governing our business, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in particular the establishment of a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with authority to write rules impacting the business of, conduct examinations of, and enforce the laws and regulations it writes against credit reporting companies, and related regulations, federal or state responses to identity theft concerns; adverse or uncertain economic conditions and changes in credit and financial markets; the European sovereign debt crisis; the recent downgrade of U.S. sovereign debt and political concerns over related budgetary matters, exchange rates; timing and amount of capital expenditures; changes in capital markets and corresponding effects on the companys investments and benefit plan obligations; earnings exchange rates and the decisions of taxing authorities, all of which could affect our effective tax rates; and potential adverse developments in new and pending legal proceedings or governments investigations. Additional risks and uncertainties can be found in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 under captions Forward-Looking Statements and Item 1A, Risk Factors, and in our other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements are given only as at the date of this release and the company disclaims any obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.
 
 
E
QUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
 
EQUIFAX
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
Operating revenue and operating income consist of the following components:
 
 
 
 
 
nm - not meaningful
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2012 results using 2011 exchange rates.
 
 
Common Questions & Answers (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions)
 
Our effective tax rate was 35.0% for the three months ended June 30, 2012 down from 59.4% for the same period in 2011 due primarily to the impact of recording $17.5 million of tax expense associated with the Brazilian Transaction that occurred in 2011. The impact of the
Brazilian Transaction increased our effective tax rate 23.2% for the quarter in 2011. The effective income tax rate on the Brazilian Transaction is higher than the statutory rate primarily due to the recognition of tax impacts related to foreign currency changes for which we had not
previously recorded tax expense because we have historically been permanently invested in Brazil with respect to foreign currency
fluctuations. The remainder of the rate decrease is due to the impact of lower foreign income taxes and the reversal of certain contingent
tax liabilities.
 
Depreciation and amortization are as follows:
 
 
The U.S. dollar impact on operating revenue and operating income is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
nm - not meaningful
 
 
Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures (Unaudited)
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Reflects percentage change in revenue conforming 2012 results using 2011 exchange rates.
 
 
Notes to Reconciliations of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to the Comparable GAAP Financial Measures
 
 During the second quarter of 2011, the Company completed the merger of our Brazilian business with and into Boa Vista Servicos, S.A. (BVS) in exchange for a 15 percent equity interest in BVS. The Company recorded a $27.8 million loss on the transaction. Management believes excluding the loss from certain financial results provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our financial results for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011, as compared to 2012, since a loss of such an amount is not comparable among the periods. This is consistent with how our management reviews and assesses Equifaxs historical performance and is useful when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods.
Loss on the deconsolidation of Brazilian business
 
- We calculate these financial measures by excluding the loss on the deconsolidation of our Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense from the determination of net income attributable to Equifax in the calculation of diluted EPS. These financial measures are not prepared in conformity with GAAP. Management believes that these measures are useful because management excludes acquisition-related amortization expense and other items that are not comparable when measuring operating profitability, evaluating performance trends, and setting performance objectives, and it allows investors to evaluate our performance for different periods on a more comparable basis by excluding items that relate to acquisition-related intangible assets and items that impact comparability.
Diluted EPS and net income from attributable to Equifax, adjusted for the loss on the deconsolidation of Brazilian business and acquisition-related amortization expense
 
- Management believes excluding the Brazilian revenue from the calculation of operating revenue, on a non-GAAP basis, is useful because it allows investors to evaluate the Companys growth on a basis consistent with the current composition of our business.
Adjusted operating revenue, excluding the results of our Brazilian operations
 
 


