FILE:EFX/EFX-8K-20121228161117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C.  20549
 
____________________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):  
December 1, 2012
 
EQUIFAX INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  
(404) 885-8000
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
The completion of the Transaction described below under Item 2.01 resulted in the termination, effective December 28, 2012, of an agreement pursuant to which certain credit reporting agencies owned by Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) utilized the computerized credit database services of Equifax Inc. (the Company) and certain of its affiliates. Under the Agreement for Computerized Credit Reporting Services and Options to Purchase and Sell Assets dated August 1, 1988, among the Company, CSC and certain of their respective affiliates (as amended, the Terminated Agreement), CSC had retained ownership of its credit files and the revenues generated by its credit reporting activities, and the Company received a processing fee for maintaining the database and for each report supplied. The Terminated Agreement also provided the Company with an option to purchase CSCs credit reporting business if there was a change in control of CSC while such agreement was in effect, and CSC had the option (the Put Option) to sell its credit reporting business to the Company. The Put Option was scheduled to expire on August 1, 2013, had an exercise price to be determined by a third-party appraisal process and was payable in cash within 180 days after any exercise of the Put Option.
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
On December 28, 2012, pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) dated as of December 1, 2012, between Equifax Information Services LLC, a subsidiary of the Company, and CSC Credit Services, Inc., a subsidiary of CSC, the Company completed the purchase of certain credit services business assets and operations of CSC (the Transaction) for approximately $1.0 billion in cash. The Company funded the purchase price of the Transaction using $496 million in net proceeds from the issuance of 3.30% Senior Notes due 2022, $265 million from the issuance of short-term commercial paper and $239 million in other available cash.
 
The foregoing description of the Purchase Agreement (including the description of the consideration paid in connection with the Transaction) is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Purchase Agreement, a copy of which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 3, 2012 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On December 28, 2012, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had completed the closing of the Transaction. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01. The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)    Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of CSC Credit Services, Inc., including its consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012, its consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, parent company equity and cash flows for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, the related notes, and the report of independent auditor related thereto, were previously filed as Exhibit 99.1, and the consent of independent auditor related thereto was filed as Exhibit 23.1, to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 10, 2012, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The unaudited condensed financial statements of CSC Credit Services, Inc., including its consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2012, its consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income and cash flows for the six months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, and the related notes, were previously filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 10, 2012, and are incorporated herein by reference.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
The Companys unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, comprised of a pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2012 and pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 and the twelve months ended December 31, 2011, and the related notes, were previously filed as Exhibit 99.3 to the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 10, 2012, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: December 28, 2012
 
Exhibit Index
The following exhibits are being filed with this report:
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
1550 Peachtree Street, N.W. Atlanta, Georgia 30309
 
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
Equifax Completes Acquisition of CSC Credit Services Assets
 
Equifax Inc. (NYSE: EFX) announced the completion of the acquisition of certain business assets and the operations of CSC Credit Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Computer Sciences Corporation (NYSE: CSC) following satisfaction of all closing conditions of the asset purchase agreement. Equifax announced on December 3 that it entered into a definitive purchase agreement with respect to this acquisition.
ATLANTA, December 28, 2012 
 
Headquartered in Houston, TX, CSCs credit services business provides consumer credit services and related information to banks, mortgage companies, retail establishments, the automotive industry, medical entities, utility companies and other users of financial and credit information. CSC owns consumer credit files in 15 U.S. states covering approximately 20 percent of the U.S. population. CSC has been Equifaxs largest credit affiliate since 1988. Equifax has been processing CSCs credit information and selling those files nationally since that time.
 
 
About Equifax (www.equifax.com)
 
 
is a global leader in consumer and commercial information solutions, providing businesses of all sizes and consumers with information they can trust. We organize and assimilate data on more than 500 million consumers and 81 million businesses worldwide, and use advanced analytics and proprietary technology to create and deliver customized insights that enrich both the performance of businesses and the lives of consumers.
Equifax
 
 
Headquartered in Atlanta, Equifax operates or has investments in 18 countries and is a member of Standard & Poors (S&P) 500 Index. Its common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol . For more information, please visit www.equifax.com .
EFX
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This document may contain forward-looking statements.  Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to material differences between the actual future results, financial situation, development or performance of Equifax and the information contained in this release.  These factors include the ability to integrate successfully the purchased assets and operations within Equifax or to realize synergies from such integration; costs related to the acquisition; the economic environment of the industries in which Equifax operates; and other risk factors discussed in Equifaxs public reports filed with the SEC.  Equifax assumes no duty whatsoever to update these forward-looking statements or to conform them to future events or developments.
 
 
 
###
 
 


