FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20071121172820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 16, 2007, Vulcan Materials Company (formerly named Virginia Holdco, Inc. and referred to herein as "Vulcan", "we" or "us") entered into (i) a $2,000 million revolving 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007 (the "Bridge Credit Agreement") with Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "Bridge Administrative Agent"), and the lenders (the "Bridge Lenders") and other parties thereto; (ii) a revolving $500 million 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007 (the "364-Day Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "364-Day Administrative Agent"), and the lenders (the "364-Day Lenders") and other parties thereto; and (iii) a revolving $1,500 million Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007 (the "Five-Year Credit Agreement", and together with the Bridge Credit Agreement and the 364-Day Credit Agreement, the "Credit Agreements") with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "Five-Year Administrative Agent"), and the lenders (the "Five-Year Lenders", and together with the Bridge Lenders and the 364-Day Lenders, the "Lenders") and other parties thereto. We refer to the credit facility under the Bridge Credit Agreement as the "Bridge Credit Facility", the credit facility under the 364-Day Credit Agreement as the "364-Day Credit Facility", the credit facility under the Five-Year Credit Agreement as the "Five-Year Credit Facility", and the three together as the "Credit Facilities".
The Credit Facilities are senior unsecured debt obligations of Vulcan. The Credit Agreements contain customary representations, affirmative and negative covenants (including limitations on liens, and a maximum consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.65 to 1.00) and events of default usual for credit facilities of the type. The Bridge Credit Agreement requires mandatory prepayments in the event of public or private offerings of equity, hybrid or debt securities or debt issuances, subject to certain exceptions and thresholds.
The Bridge Credit Facility matures on November 14, 2008. The 364-Day Credit Facility matures on November 14, 2008, provided that Vulcan may, not more than 90 days but not less than 60 days prior to November 14, 2008, request that each 364-Day Lender extend the original maturity date for one additional 364-day period. The Five-Year Credit Facility matures on November 16, 2012, provided that Vulcan may, not later than 60 days prior to the second anniversary of the closing date, request that each Five-Year Lender extend the original maturity date for one additional one-year period. Vulcan may (i) request an increase in the commitments under the 364-Day Credit Facility by up to $500 million and (ii) request an increase in the commitments under the Five-Year Credit Facility by up to $500 million, subject in each case to Vulcan obtaining commitments from new and existing lenders for the additional amounts, provided that the amount of increases under the 364-Day Credit Facility plus the amount of increases under the Five-Year Credit Facility shall not exceed, in the aggregate, $500 million. The Five-Year Credit Facility also contains a sublimit of $250 million for the issuance of letters of credit and a swing line sublimit of $25 million. The 364-Day Credit Facility and the Five-Year Credit Facility also contain a $200 million sublimit for competitive bid loans.
Proceeds of the Credit Facilities may only be used to finance the acquisition of Florida Rock Industries, Inc. ("Florida Rock"), which was completed on November 16, 2007, and to pay related fees and expenses, to repay certain existing debt and to back-up Vulcan's commercial paper program as well as for ongoing working capital requirements and general corporate purposes.
The loans under the Credit Facilities bear interest at a rate equal to LIBOR plus a margin determined by reference to a ratings-based pricing grid, or the base rate (which is defined as the higher of the Wachovia prime rate and the Federal funds rate plus 0.50% for the Bridge Credit Facility and the higher of the Bank of America prime rate and the Federal Funds rate plus 0.50% for the 364-Day Credit Facility and the Five-Year Credit Facility). Assuming an A-/A3 equivalent credit rating level, the applicable rate under the Bridge Credit Facility and the 364-Day Credit Facility will be 0.200%, and the applicable rate under the Five-Year Credit Facility will be 0.190%. Each Credit Facility requires that we pay a facility fee (ranging from 0.045% to 0.085% for the Bridge Credit Facility and the 364-Day Credit Facility, and ranging from 0.040% to 0.100% for the Five-Year Credit Facility, in each case based on our ratings).
As of November 19, 2007, $1,500 million was outstanding under the Bridge Credit Facility, $350 million was outstanding under the 364-Day Credit Agreement and $1,500 million was outstanding under the Five-Year Credit Agreement. The proceeds of the initial borrowings were used to pay the purchase price for the acquisition of Florida Rock and related fees and expenses. The Five-Year Credit Agreement replaced our prior credit agreement. Vulcan expects to repay the outstanding loans and reduce commitments under the Bridge Credit Facility with the proceeds of commercial paper issuances under its new commercial paper program and with the proceeds of primarily fixed rate debt at maturities ranging from 3 to 30 years.
Certain of the Lenders and their affiliates have provided, from time to time, and may continue to provide, investment banking, commercial banking, financial and other services to us, including letters of credit, depository and account processing services, for which we have paid and intend to pay customary fees, and our pension fund also invests in funds managed by the Lenders or affiliates of the Lenders. Goldman, Sachs & Co., an affiliate of Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P., a Lender, provided financial advisory services to Vulcan in connection with the mergers for which it received customary fees. Certain of the initial Lenders were parties to our prior credit agreement. Banc of America Securities LLC, an affiliate of Bank of America, N.A., a Lender, and Goldman, Sachs & Co. are dealers with respect to our new commercial paper program, and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., is the issuing and paying agent. To hedge our exposure on particular securities, we have from time to time entered into transactions involving derivative instruments, such as swaps, with Bank of America, N.A. Northern Trust Company, a Lender, serves as Trustee under the Vulcan Materials Company Master Pension Trust. Donald B. Rice, one of our directors, is a director of Wells Fargo & Company, an affiliate of one of our Lenders, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association.
The foregoing description of the Credit Agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Credit Agreements, which are filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 (the Bridge Credit Agreement), Exhibit 10.2 (the 364-Day Credit Agreement), and Exhibit 10.3 (the Five-Year Credit Agreement) to this Report and are incorporated in this Report by reference.
On November 16, 2007, Vulcan announced that Vulcan, Legacy Vulcan Corp. (formerly known as Vulcan Materials Company and referred to herein as "Legacy Vulcan"), and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee"), entered into a Supplemental Indenture No. 1 (the "Supplemental Indenture") to Legacy Vulcan's Indenture, dated as of May 1, 1991, between Legacy Vulcan and the Trustee under which Vulcan's existing 6% Notes due 2009 and existing medium-term notes (collectively, the "Existing Notes") were issued. Pursuant to the Supplemental Indenture, Vulcan fully and unconditionally guarantees the obligations of Legacy Vulcan under the Indenture. Also, on November 15, 2007, Legacy Vulcan filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission Forms 15 with respect to the Existing Notes in order to cease Legacy Vulcan's independent reporting requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with respect to Existing Notes.
A copy of the Supplemental Indenture is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1.
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
As described above under Item 1.01 of this Report, on November 16, 2007, we entered into (i) a $2,000 million revolving 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement, (ii) a $1,500 million revolving Five-Year Credit Agreement and (iii) a $500 million revolving 364-Day Credit Agreement.
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 19, 2007, as contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 19, 2007, as amended April 9, 2007, among us, Legacy Vulcan, Florida Rock, Virginia Merger Sub, Inc. and Fresno Merger Sub, Inc., John D. Baker II was elected a director of Vulcan, with a term expiring in 2009. Mr. Baker was formerly the President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of Florida Rock. Mr. Baker has been named to the Finance and Pension Funds Committee and the Safety, Health and Environmental Affairs Committee of the Vulcan Board of Directors.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On November 19, 2007, Vulcan issued a press release announcing the election of Mr. Baker to the Board. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
On November 21, 2007, Vulcan issued a press release announcing final results of consideration elections by Florida Rock shareholders. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 4.1
     This SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "") is dated as of November 16, 2007, among Legacy Vulcan Corp. (formerly known as ""), a New Jersey corporation (the ""), Vulcan Materials Company (formerly known as ""), a New Jersey corporation (""), and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee (together with its successors in trust, the "") under the Indenture (as hereinafter defined).
Supplemental Indenture
Vulcan Materials Company
Company
Virginia Holdco, Inc.
Holdco
Trustee
     WHEREAS, the Company and the Trustee (as successor to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and The Bank of New York) are parties to an Indenture, dated as of May 1, 1991 (the ""), pursuant to which the Company issued its $250 million 6.00% Notes due 2009 (the "") and $5 million 8.8% medium-term notes due 2011, $10 million 8.7% medium-term notes due 2013, and $6 million 8.85% medium term notes due 2021 (the "", and together with the 2009 Notes, the "");
Indenture
2009 Notes
Medium-Term Notes
Securities
     WHEREAS, on February 19, 2007, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, as amended (the "") with Holdco, Florida Rock Industries, Inc. (""), Virginia Merger Sub, Inc. (""), and Fresno Merger Sub, Inc. (""), pursuant to which (i) Virginia Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company, with the Company being the surviving company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco and (ii) Fresno Merger Sub will merge with and into Florida Rock, with Florida Rock being the surviving company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Holdco (the "");
Merger Agreement
Florida Rock
Virginia Merger Sub
Fresno Merger Sub
Mergers
     WHEREAS, in connection with the Mergers, Holdco desires to fully and unconditionally guarantee to each Holder the full and punctual payment of the principal of, premium, if any, and interest on the Securities on the dates and in the manner provided for in the Indenture and the Securities;
     WHEREAS, Section 901(5) of the Indenture provides that, without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more supplemental indentures, to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of the Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination shall not modify the rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision;
     WHEREAS, the execution and delivery of this instrument have been duly authorized and all conditions and requirements necessary to make this instrument a valid and binding agreement have been duly performed and complied with; and
     WHEREAS, this Supplemental Indenture is being executed immediately after the closing of the Mergers;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises set forth herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby
 
acknowledged, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders, as follows:
ARTICLE 1.   HOLDCO GUARANTEE
     Section 1.01.   Holdco hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees to each Holder the full and punctual payment when due, whether at Stated Maturity, by acceleration, by redemption or otherwise, of all obligations of the Company under the Indenture and the Securities, whether for payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on the Securities and all other monetary obligations of the Company under the Indenture and the Securities. Holdco hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company, protest or notice and all demands whatsoever with respect to the Securities or the indebtedness evidenced thereby.
     Section 1.02   The agreements of Holdco herein shall be valid and obligatory with respect to any Security that heretofore or hereinafter has been authenticated and delivered under the Indenture.
ARTICLE 2.   MISCELLANEOUS
     Section 2.01.   On the date hereof, the Indenture shall be supplemented and amended in accordance herewith, and this Supplemental Indenture shall form part of the Indenture for all purposes, and the Holder of every Security heretofore or hereafter authenticated and delivered under the Indenture shall be bound thereby. The Trustee accepts the trusts created by the Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, and agrees to perform the same upon the terms and conditions of the Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture.
     Section 2.02.   Capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture.
     Section 2.03.   This Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the date hereof at such time as executed counterparts of this Supplemental Indenture have been delivered by each party hereto to the other party thereto.
     Section 2.04.   All provisions of this Supplemental Indenture shall be deemed to be incorporated in, and made a part of, the Indenture. The Indenture, as amended and supplemented by this Supplemental Indenture, shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument and all provisions in the Indenture and the Securities shall remain in full force and effect.
     Section 2.05.   In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplemental Indenture shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Supplemental Indenture, but this Supplemental Indenture shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein.
 
     Section 2.06.  The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. One signed copy is enough to prove this Supplemental Indenture.
     Section 2.07.  The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity and sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which are made solely by the Company and Holdco.
     Section 2.08.  In entering into this Supplemental Indenture, the Trustee shall be entitled to the benefit of every provision of the Indenture and the Securities relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee, whether or not elsewhere herein so provided.
     Section 2.09.  All covenants and agreements in this Supplemental Indenture by the Company and the Trustee shall bind their respective successors and assigns. Nothing in this Supplemental Indenture, express or implied, shall give to any person, other than the parties hereto and their successors under the Indenture and the Holders of the Securities, any benefit of any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under the Indenture.
     Section 2.10.  This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.

 
Exhibit 10.1
Published CUSIP Number: XXXXXXXXX
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBITS
 
     (this "") is entered into as of November 16, 2007, among , a New Jersey corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and as Administrative Agent.
THIS 364-DAY BRIDGE CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
VIRGINIA HOLDCO, INC.
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION,
     The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
     . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms
     "" means the acquisition by the Borrower of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Target and its Subsidiaries as described in the Acquisition Agreement.
Acquisition
     "" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 19, 2007, by and among the Borrower, the Target, VMC, Virginia Merger Sub, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, and Fresno Merger Sub, Inc., a Florida corporation, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 9, 2007 and as further amended from time to time.
Acquisition Agreement
     "" means, collectively, the Acquisition Agreement and all other material agreements executed in connection with the Acquisition, as amended from time to time.
Acquisition Documents
     "" means Wachovia in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
     "" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
     "" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
 
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Agreement
     "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
     "" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
     "" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the Pricing Level for the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 4 being the lowest); (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply; and (c) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level 4 shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the publicly announced Debt Rating in effect on the Closing Date. Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement or publication thereof by S&P or Moody's, respectively, or, in the absence of such announcement or publication, on the effective date of such changed Debt Rating, and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
     "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
     "" means each of Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, Banc of America Securities LLC, Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., each in its capacity as a joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner.
Arrangers
     "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit D
     "" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.06
Section 8.02
     "" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Wachovia as its "prime rate". The "prime rate" is a rate set by Wachovia based upon various factors including Wachovia's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Wachovia shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
plus
     "" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
     "" means Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, to be re-named "Vulcan Materials Company" on or about the Closing Date.
Borrower
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Borrowing
Section 2.01
     "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the State of North Carolina and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
     "" means any nonredeemable capital stock of the Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary (to the extent issued to a Person other than the Borrower), whether common or preferred.
Capital Stock
 
     "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
     "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement. The aggregate amount of the Commitments on the Closing Date is $2,000,000,000.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
     "" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit C
     "" means at any date the indebtedness for borrowed money shown on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date (or would be if a balance sheet were prepared on such date); that indebtedness for borrowed money of any Partially Owned Subsidiary which is a Consolidated Subsidiary shall be equal to the Guaranteed Amount of such indebtedness.
Consolidated Debt
provided
     "" means at any date any Subsidiary or other entity the accounts of which, in accordance with GAAP, are consolidated with those of any Person in its consolidated financial statements as of such date.
Consolidated Subsidiary
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Controlled Group
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate".
Debt Rating
     "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
 
     "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means an interest rate equal to (a) the Base Rate (b) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
provided
however
plus
     "" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
     "" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
     "" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
     "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
     "" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived, with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which
ERISA Event
 
constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA or contributions to a Pension Plan in the ordinary course, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
     "" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
     Where,
     "" means, for such Interest Period, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate or the arithmetic mean of rates (rounded upward, if necessary, to the nearest 1/16 of one percentage point) at which Dollar deposits for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted are offered by Wachovia to first-tier banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
     "" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
     "" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage. The LIBOR Daily Floating Rate for each outstanding LIBOR Floating Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
     "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower
Excluded Taxes
 
hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
     "" means the Existing Vulcan Credit Facilities and the Existing Target Credit Facility.
Existing Credit Facilities
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 27, 2004 among the Target, material domestic subsidiaries from time to time parties thereto, lenders parties thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, as amended.
Existing Target Credit Facility
     "" means the credit facility provided under the Existing Vulcan 364-Day Credit Agreement and the Existing Vulcan Five-Year Credit Agreement, respectively.
Existing Vulcan Credit Facilities
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006 by and among VMC, the lenders party thereto from time to time, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006 and Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2007.
Existing Vulcan Five-Year Credit Agreement
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006 among VMC, the lenders party thereto from time to time, and Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2007.
Existing Vulcan 364-Day Credit Agreement
     "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Wachovia on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 
     "" means the letter agreement, dated May 21, 2007, between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letter
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
     "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
     "" by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (a) to secure, purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to provide collateral security, to take-or-pay, or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (b) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part); that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The term "Guarantee" used as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
provided
     "" means, with respect to the Indebtedness of another Person, the aggregate amount for which the Borrower is liable (whether by Guarantee or as a general partner or otherwise, but excluding any amounts with respect to which the Borrower is expressly exculpated).
Guaranteed Amount
 
     "" of any Person means at any date, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, (d) the capitalized amount of all obligations of such Person as lessee under capital leases (excluding all Synthetic Lease Obligations) that are required to be accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, (e) all obligations of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts payable under a banker's acceptance, (f) all obligations of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts paid or to be paid under a drawn letter of credit or similar instrument, (g) all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by such Person, and (h) all Indebtedness of others Guaranteed by such Person.
Indebtedness
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
     "" means, (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date, and (c) as to any LIBOR Floating Rate Loan, the first Business Day of each month and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
     "" means, as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date that is (a) one day or (b) one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
     (a) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
     (b) any Interest Period, other than a one day Interest Period, that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
     (c) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
     "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any
Laws
 
Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
     "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
     "" means a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
LIBOR Daily Floating Rate
Where,
     "" means, for all Loans, on any day any such Loan is outstanding, the fluctuating rate of interest (rounded upwards, as necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) as reported on Telerate page 3750 at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the first Business Day of the then-current month for Dollar deposits with a term of one month (or if not so reported, then as determined by the Administrative Agent from another recognized source or interbank quotation).
LIBOR Daily Floating Base Rate
     "" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate.
LIBOR Floating Rate Loan
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or other security interest or encumbrance (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any capital lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
     "" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under .
Loan
Article II
     "" means this Agreement, each Note and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
     "" means a notice of (a) a Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
     "" means (a) a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties or financial condition of the Borrower, VMC, the Target and their respective Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Document; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of any Loan Document.
Material Adverse Effect
 
     "" means the date which is 364 days after the Closing Date; , , that, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
however
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" meanswith respect to any sale of any capital stock or other equity interest or issuance of Indebtedness, the excess of (a) the sum of the cash and cash equivalents received in connection with such sale or issuance (b) the underwriting discounts and commissions and other out-of-pocket fees and expenses incurred, or taxes paid or payable, by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection with such sale or issuance.
Net Cash Proceeds
,
over
     "" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit B
     "" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities and other monetary obligations of, the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
     "" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
     "" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document. "Other Taxes" shall not include any Taxes imposed on (or measured by reference to) gross income, net income, or gain.
Other Taxes
     "" means a Subsidiary that is not a Wholly Owned Subsidiary.
Partially Owned Subsidiary
 
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
     "" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
4064(a)
     "" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
     (a) Liens imposed by law or any Governmental Authority for taxes, assessments or charges that are not yet due or are being contested;
     (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or where the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
     (c) pledges and deposits made in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
     (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
     (e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default; and
     (f) easements, zoning restrictions, minor title imperfections, restrictions on use, rights of way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries;
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code and is either (a) maintained by a member of the Controlled Group for employees of any member of the Controlled Group or (b) maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or any other
Plan
 
arrangement under which more than one employer makes contributions and to which a member of the Controlled Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions.
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
     "" means all real property owned, leased or otherwise used or occupied by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, wherever located.
Properties
     "" means all rights of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries to payment, whether constituting an account, chattel paper, instrument, general intangible or otherwise, arising from the sale of goods or services (including rights under bill and hold arrangements) by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (and including the right to payment of any interest or finance charges and other obligations with respect thereto).
Receivables
     "" means any transaction or series of transactions that may be entered into by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries pursuant to which the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to the Receivables Subsidiary and, in the case of a transfer by the Receivables Subsidiary, any other Person, or may grant a security interest in, any Receivables (whether now existing or arising in the future); that:
Receivables Securitization
provided
     (a) no portion of the indebtedness or any other obligations (contingent or otherwise) of a Receivables Subsidiary (i) is guaranteed by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary and excluding guarantees of obligations pursuant to customary securitization undertakings), (ii) is recourse to or obligates the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) for payment other than pursuant to customary securitization undertakings or (iii) subjects any property or asset of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary), directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction of obligations incurred in such transactions, other than pursuant to customary securitization undertakings;
     (b) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) do not have any obligation to maintain or preserve the financial condition of the Receivables Subsidiary or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results; and
     (c) fair value has been received.
     "" means a special purpose corporation that is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower, whose primary business shall be the acquisition of Receivables pursuant to the Receivables Securitization and those activities incidental to the Receivables Securitization.
Receivables Subsidiary
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
     "" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed in the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means, with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Loans, a Loan Notice.
Request for Borrowing
     "" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings; that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
     "" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of the Borrower and, solely for purposes of notices given pursuant to , any other officer or employee of the Borrower so designated by any of the foregoing officers in a notice to the Administrative Agent. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
Article II
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC, all as amended.
Securities Laws
     "" means, at any time, the shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as set forth or reflected on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
     "" means any Subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC.
Significant Subsidiary
     "" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
 
     "" means all obligations of such Person with respect to interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements or other hedging arrangements (valued for any SWAP Obligation at any date, as the net payments that such Person would have to make in the event of an early termination of the applicable agreement on such date).
SWAP Obligations
     "" means any operating lease under GAAP for which the lessee retains federal tax ownership of the property leased.
Synthetic Lease
     "" means any and all liabilities, indebtedness, rent, and all other obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary owed under any Synthetic Lease.
Synthetic Lease Obligations
     "" means Florida Rock Industries, Inc., a Florida corporation.
Target
     "" means the merger of Fresno Merger Sub, Inc., a Florida corporation, with and into the Target, with the Target as the surviving corporation of such merger.
Target Merger
     "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings or like charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
     "" means the sum of (a) Shareholders' Equity (b) Consolidated Debt.
Total Capitalization
plus
     "" means on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Loans occurring on such date.
Total Outstandings
     "" means (a) the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the borrowings hereunder and (b) the consummation of the Acquisition, the Target Merger, the Vulcan Merger and the other transactions to occur pursuant to the Acquisition Documents.
Transactions
     "" means, with respect to a Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan.
Type
     "" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
     "" means Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation and the surviving entity of the VMC Merger, to be renamed "VMC Corp." on or about the Closing Date.
VMC
     "" means the merger of Virginia Merger Sub, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, with and into Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation, with Vulcan Materials Company as the surviving corporation of such merger.
Vulcan Merger
     "" means Wachovia Bank, National Association and its successors.
Wachovia
     "" means any Subsidiary all of the shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors' qualifying shares) are at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Borrower.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 
     "" mean, collectively, (a) the Five-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007, by and among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, (b) the 364-Day Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007, by and among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, and (c) any revolving credit or comparable credit agreement dated on or after the Closing Date by and among the Target and any financial institutions thereto.
Working Capital Credit Facilities
     . With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
     (a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "", "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "". Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "", "" and "", and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
asset
property
     (b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ""; the words "" and "" each mean ""; and the word "" means "".
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
     (c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
     . (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout
1.03 Accounting Terms
Generally
 
the applicable period, as in effect from time to time, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
except
     (b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
     . Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04 Rounding
     . Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.05 Times of Day
     . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Loans of any Lender shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Loans may be Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.01 Loans
Loan
provided
however
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
Section 2.01
     .
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Loans
     (a) Each Borrowing, each conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans,
 
and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Borrowing, a conversion of Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Loan in a Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
Section 2.02(a)
     (b) Following receipt of a Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Borrowing, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Wachovia with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
     (c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Wachovia's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
 
     (e) After giving effect to all Borrowings, all conversions of Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Loans.
     
2.03 [Reserved.]
     
2.04 [Reserved.]
     .
2.05 Voluntary Prepayments; Voluntary Termination or Reduction of Commitments
     (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice (which may be conditional) must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be repaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
provided
Section 3.05
     (b) The Borrower may, upon notice (which may be conditional) to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (i) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (ii) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, and (iii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments.
provided
     (c) The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders upon receiving any notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to this . Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
Section 2.05
 
     .
2.06 Mandatory Prepayments; Mandatory Termination or Reduction of Commitments
     (a) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall immediately prepay Loans in an aggregate amount equal to such excess, without premium or penalty.
     (b) The Aggregate Commitments shall be permanently reduced from time to time, without premium or penalty, as specified below upon the occurrence of each of the following events:
     (i) The Aggregate Commitments shall be reduced from time to time in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Net Cash Proceeds from any private or public offering of equity securities or hybrid securities (but subject, in the case of any hybrid security, to the exception provided in (substituting for purposes of this "hybrid securities" for the term "Indebtedness")) of the Borrower or any Subsidiary (including any security not constituting Indebtedness exchangeable, exercisable or convertible for or into equity securities) occurring after the Closing Date, other than the following:
Section 2.06(b)(ii)(C)
clause (i)
     (A) issuances to employees or directors, upon the exercise of options or otherwise;
     (B) issuances made pursuant to the Borrower's dividend reinvestment plan; and
     (C) issuances in connection with the Acquisition as described in the Acquisition Agreement.
     (ii) The Aggregate Commitments shall be reduced from time to time in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Net Cash Proceeds from each private or public offering or incurrence of Indebtedness of the Borrower or any Subsidiary for borrowed money that occurs after the Closing Date or, in the case of any revolving credit or comparable credit facility of the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is effective after the Closing Date or any amendments to any existing revolving credit or comparable credit facilities which increase the commitments thereunder after the Closing Date, upon the effectiveness of such credit facility or increase, in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the committed amounts or increased commitments thereunder, as the case may be, in each case other than the following:
     (A) any commercial paper issuance in the ordinary course of business;
     (B) any commercial paper issued on or about the Closing Date to the extent the Net Cash Proceeds thereof are used to fund the Acquisition; and
     (C) any other issuance of Indebtedness or new or increased commitments under any revolving credit or comparable credit facility with Net Cash Proceeds or commitments in an aggregate principal amount of up to
 
$50,000,000, to the extent the proceeds thereof or commitments thereunder are not reasonably available to reduce the Aggregate Commitments.
Each reduction of the Aggregate Commitments required by this shall be effective (and any resulting prepayment of Loans required under shall be made) within five (5) Business Days of the Borrower's or Subsidiary's receipt of Net Cash Proceeds or, in the case of the effectiveness of any revolving credit or comparable credit facility or increase of commitments under existing revolving credit or comparable credit facilities, within five (5) Business Days of the effectiveness thereof. The Borrower shall provide written notice (which may be conditional) to the Administrative Agent at least two (2) Business Days prior to the occurrence of any of the events described above in this , which notice shall set forth the calculations utilized in computing the amount of any such reduction of the Aggregate Commitments.
Section 2.06(b)
Section 2.06(a)
Section 2.06(b)
     (c) The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders upon receiving any notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to this . Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
Section 2.06
     . The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Loans outstanding on such date.
2.07 Repayment of Loans
     .
2.08 Interest
     (a) At the Borrower's option, subject to the provisions of below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate; and (iii) each LIBOR Floating Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate the Applicable Rate.
subsection (b)
plus
plus
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
 
     (iii) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
     (c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
     .
2.09 Fees
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Total Outstandings), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Loans remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
     (b) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for its own account fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Other Fees
     . All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Wachovia's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.10 Computation of Interest and Fees
provided
Section 2.12(a)
 
     . The Borrowings made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Borrowings made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
2.11 Evidence of Debt
     .
2.12 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
     (a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 3:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 3:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Borrowing of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, prior to 1:00 p.m. on the date of such Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, any administrative processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
plus
     (ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
     A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
subsection (b)
     (c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Borrowing set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
     (d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
 
     (e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
     . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Loans made by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
2.13 Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro
rata
provided
     (i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
     (ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement.
     The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
     .
3.01 Taxes
     (a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
 
timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
     (b) . Without limiting the provisions of above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
subsection (a)
     (c) . Without duplication of any additional amounts paid pursuant to , the Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within ten days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority, that, if the Borrower determines that any such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were not correctly or legally imposed or asserted, the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as applicable, shall allow the Borrower to contest (and shall cooperate in such contest), the imposition of such Tax upon the reasonable request of the Borrower and at the Borrower's expense; , , that the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as applicable, shall not be required to participate in any contest that would, in its reasonable judgment, expose it to a material commercial disadvantage or require it to disclose any information it considers confidential or proprietary. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive; that such amounts are determined on a reasonable basis.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Section 3.01(a)
provided
provided
however
provided
     (d) . As soon as reasonably practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
     (e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Each Lender shall promptly provide such forms upon becoming aware of the obsolescence, expiration or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Lender (unless it is legally unable to do so as a result
Status of Lenders
 
of a Change in Law) and shall promptly notify the Borrower at any time it determines that any previously delivered forms are no longer valid.
     Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
     (i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
     (ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
     (iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
     (iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
     (f) . If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its reasonable discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes or determines in its sole discretion exercised in good faith that it has obtained the benefit of a credit for Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund or the net benefit attributable to such credit (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund or credit), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund or credit), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower ( any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund or credit to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it reasonably deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds and Credits
provided
plus
 
     . If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.02 Illegality
     . If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
     .
3.04 Increased Costs
     (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate);
     (ii) subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
Section 3.01
 
     (iii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) . If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
     (c) . A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in or of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error; that such determinations are made on a reasonable basis. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within ten days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
subsection (a)
(b)
provided
     (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
     . Upon written request of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent, which shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for requesting such amounts), from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
     (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest
 
Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
     (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
     (c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary out-of-pocket administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
     For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
     .
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
     (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
     (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
     . All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07 Survival
Article III
 
     . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Borrowing hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Initial Borrowing
     (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
     (i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
     (ii) a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note at least two Business Days prior to the Closing Date;
     (iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require evidencing the authority of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party;
     (iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed, and that the Borrower is validly existing and in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization;
     (v) (i) an opinion of in-house counsel for the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in the form of and (ii) an opinion of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen, & Katz, special counsel for the Borrower, in the form of ;
Exhibit E-1
Exhibit E-2
     (vi) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that there has been no event or circumstance since December 31, 2006, that has had or could be reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect (as defined in the Acquisition Agreement) on the Target and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
     (vii) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying as to the accuracy and completeness of the Acquisition Documents, copies of which shall be attached thereto, and certifying that the Acquisition shall have been, or substantially simultaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement shall be, consummated;
     (viii) satisfactory evidence that the Existing Credit Facilities shall have been, or will be substantially contemporaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement, terminated and repaid in full; and
 
     (ix) such other documents as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
     (b) The Acquisition shall have been, or substantially simultaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement shall be, consummated on or before November 30, 2007 in accordance with the Acquisition Agreement. The Acquisition Documents shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers, it being understood that the Acquisition Agreement dated as of February 19, 2007, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 9, 2007, is satisfactory to the Arrangers. All conditions precedent to the consummation of the Acquisition shall have been satisfied or waived (with the prior consent of the Arrangers if the Arrangers reasonably determine such waiver is materially adverse to the Lenders).
     (c) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
     (d) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced two Business Days prior to the Closing Date, such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
plus
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
     . The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Borrowing (other than the initial funding on the Closing Date, a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to all Borrowings
     (a) All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (except for the representations and warranties contained in and hereof) that are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, and all representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (except for the representations and warranties contained in and hereof) that are not qualified by materiality shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing, except, in each case, to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date.
Article V
Sections 5.04(c)
5.05
Article V
Sections 5.04(c)
5.05
     (b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
 
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a Request for Borrowing in accordance with the requirements hereof.
     Each Request for Borrowing (other than a Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Borrowing.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
     . The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, is duly qualified to transact business in every jurisdiction where the failure to qualify would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and has all corporate powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted except to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.01 Existence, Qualification and Power
     . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents (a) are within the Borrower's corporate powers, (b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, (c) require no approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person, except as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (d) do not violate or constitute a default under, (i) any provision of applicable law or regulation, (ii) any material agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other material instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (iii) the Organization Documents of the Borrower, and (e) do not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the material assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except in each case referred to in , or to the extent such conflict, breach or violation would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.02 Authorization; No Contravention; Governmental Authorization
clauses (d)(i)
(d)(ii)
(e)
     . This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the Notes and the other Loan Documents, when executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, that the enforceability hereof and thereof is subject in each case to general principles of equity and to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights generally, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
5.03 Binding Effect
provided
 
     .
5.04 Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
     (a) The audited consolidated balance sheet of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (i) was prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (ii) fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein.
     (b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries dated March 31, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of and , to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.
clauses (i)
(ii)
     (c) Since December 31, 2006, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . Except as disclosed in any SEC filings of the Borrower, VMC or the Target made prior to the Closing Date, there is no action, suit or proceeding pending, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened in writing, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner draws into question the validity of or which involves this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Documents.
5.05 Litigation
     . There have been filed on behalf of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries all Federal income tax returns and all other material income, excise, property and other tax returns which are required to be filed by them and all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary have been paid, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.
5.06 Taxes
     .
5.07 ERISA Compliance
     (a) With respect to each Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan), the Borrower and each member of the Controlled Group have fulfilled their obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code and are in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, and have not incurred any material liability to the PBGC (other than for premiums due but not yet delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA) or a Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) under Title IV of ERISA (other than contributions in the ordinary course).
 
     (b) Neither the Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has incurred any withdrawal liability with respect to any Multiemployer Plan under Title IV of ERISA that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and no such liability is expected to be incurred that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     .
5.08 Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
     (a) The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
     (b) The Borrower is not and is not required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
     . No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), taken as a whole and including the information contained in any filings made with the SEC by the Borrower, VMC or the Target, contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading at the time made; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by the Borrower to be reasonable at the time.
5.09 Disclosure
provided
     . The Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions, executive orders and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10 Compliance with Laws
     . The Borrower's true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
5.11 Taxpayer Identification Number
Schedule 10.02
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall:
     . Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.01 Financial Statements
 
     (a) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all accompanied by a report thereon of a Registered Public Accounting Firm, with such certification to be free of a going concern qualification or qualification as to the scope of audit; and
     (b) as soon as available, but in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007), (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal quarter and the related statement of income, and (ii) a statement of cash flows for the portion of the fiscal year ended at the end of such fiscal quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form, respectively, the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all certified (subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes) as to fairness of presentation and GAAP by the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of the Borrower.
     As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under or above, and to the extent that the Borrower has filed a Form 10K or Form 10Q for the respective financial period with the SEC, it shall be deemed to have satisfied and above.
Section 6.02(b)
clause (a)
(b)
clauses (a)
(b)
     . Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
     (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and (commencing with the delivery of the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
     (b) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
     (c) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
     Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(b)
 
date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet, at ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that makes a written request to the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender. Except for Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
www.sec.gov
provided
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). The Borrower hereby agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC", the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor". Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC".
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.,
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
     . Promptly, but in any event, within five (5) Business Days of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower becoming aware thereof, notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
     (a) of the occurrence of any Default that is continuing; and
     (b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a contractual obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any
 
Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws.
     Each notice pursuant to this shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with reasonable particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03
Section 6.03(a)
     . Pay and discharge all its material obligations and liabilities prior to such obligations or liabilities being delinquent, including all Federal income taxes and all other material tax liabilities, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary, except where the failure to so pay, discharge, contest or maintain reserves would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.04 Payment of Obligations
     . (a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation except in a transaction permitted hereunder; (b) preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, except where the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that the Borrower determines such action is not necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05 Preservation of Existence
     . Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof, except where the Borrower determines such action is not necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.06 Maintenance of Properties
     . Maintain insurance, or adequate reserves in lieu of insurance, against loss to all property owned by it material to its business in comparable amounts and against such risks as are usually insured against in the same general locale by companies of established repute engaged in the same or similar business.
6.07 Self-Insurance
     . Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08 Compliance with Laws
 
     . (a) Keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities sufficient to permit the preparation of statements in conformity with GAAP; and (b) permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine extracts from its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its officers and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as applicable, to the extent reasonably requested and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower, but not more frequently than once per every 12 month period, , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower as often as may be reasonably requested.
6.09 Books and Records; Inspection Rights
provided
however
     . Use the proceeds of the Borrowings solely (a) for the payment of amounts payable under the Acquisition Documents as consideration for the Acquisition, (b) for the payment of fees, commissions and expenses payable in connection with the Transactions, (c) to refinance all indebtedness outstanding under the Existing Credit Facilities, (d) to provide liquidity for ordinary course commercial paper credit facilities to which the Borrower is a party and commercial paper issued by the Borrower on or about the Closing Date the proceeds of which are used to finance the Acquisition in part, and (e) for ongoing working capital requirements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and for general corporate purposes.
6.10 Use of Proceeds
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall not, directly or indirectly:
     . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
7.01 Liens
     (a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
     (b) Liens existing on the date of this Agreement;
     (c) Liens on any asset securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing, refinancing or refunding all or any part of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such asset; that such Lien attaches to such asset concurrently with or within 18 months after the acquisition or completion of construction thereof;
provided
     (d) Liens on any asset of any Person existing at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such event;
 
     (e) Liens existing on any asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such acquisition;
     (f) Liens in favor of any Subsidiary;
     (g) Liens arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal, refunding or replacement of any Indebtedness secured by any Lien permitted by any of the foregoing paragraphs of this ; that the amount of such Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is not increased;
Section 7.01
provided
     (h) Liens incidental to the conduct of its business or the ownership of its assets which (i) do not secure Indebtedness and (ii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
     (i) Liens on margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB);
     (j) Liens on Receivables pursuant to a bona fide Receivables Securitization;
     (k) Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing subsections of this securing Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed 20% of Shareholders' Equity; and
Section 7.01
     (l) Permitted Encumbrances.
     . Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into any other Person (other than the Transactions), that the Borrower may enter into any such transaction with another Person so long as (a) the Borrower is the surviving entity, or the surviving entity is a Person is organized under the laws of the United States of America or one of its States or Commonwealths or the District of Columbia and expressly assumes in writing the obligations set forth under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (b) such Person is engaged in lines of business substantially similar to those lines of business conducted by the Borrower on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto or logical extensions thereof, (c) prior to giving effect to such transaction, each of S&P and Moody's shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a ratings letter indicating that, after giving effect to such transaction, the Surviving Person shall have a Debt Rating of not less than BBB-/Baa3, as applicable, and (d) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
7.02 Fundamental Changes
provided
     . Sell, lease or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, unless (a) such sale, lease or other transfer is to the Borrower or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary, or (b) such sale or other transfer consists of the sale of Receivables pursuant to a Receivables Securitization.
7.03 Sales of Assets
     . Suffer or permit the dissolution or liquidation of any Significant Subsidiary, except (a) in connection with a corporate reorganization of the Borrower permitted by , or (b) in connection with the sale of a Subsidiary or its assets permitted pursuant to .
7.04 Dissolution
Section 7.02
Section 7.03
 
     . Use the proceeds of any Borrowing, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
7.05 Use of Proceeds
     . Permit the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization at any time to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00.
7.06 Ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization
     . Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
8.01 Events of Default
     (a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as due and payable, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
     (b) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of (within 15 days after any financial statements required to be delivered under are due), , (with respect to existence only), or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.01
Section 6.01
6.03
6.05
6.09(b)
6.10
Article VII
     (c) . The Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those covered by or above) and such failure shall not have been cured within 30 days after the earlier to occur of (i) written notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of any Lender and (ii) a Responsible Officer otherwise becomes aware of any such failure; or
Other Defaults
subsection (a)
(b)
     (d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
     (e) . (i) The Borrower shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness under any Working Capital Credit Facility which results in the acceleration of the maturity of such Indebtedness; or (ii) the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (other than the Notes) if the aggregate amount of such payment is equal to or greater than $25,000,000 when due (after any applicable grace period); or (iii) any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations, in each case that are Guaranteed by the Borrower, if the aggregate amount of such payment is equal to or greater than $25,000,000 when due (after any applicable grace period); or (iv) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or
Cross-Default
 
Synthetic Lease Obligations in the aggregate outstanding (other than the Notes) equal to or greater than $100,000,000 of the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary) or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holders of such Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (or commitment with respect thereto) or any Person acting on such holders' behalf to accelerate the maturity thereof or terminate any such commitment (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary); or (v) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations in the aggregate outstanding (other than the Notes) of any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary the Guaranteed Amount of which is equal to or greater than $100,000,000 (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary) or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holders of such Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (or commitment with respect thereto) or any Person acting on such holders' behalf to accelerate the maturity thereof or terminate any such commitment (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary); or
     (f)  The Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any substantial part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any substantial part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc.
     (g) . (i) The Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or a substantial part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated, discharged or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
     (h) . One or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary and such judgment or order shall continue unsatisfied and unstayed for a period of 30 days (i) after the entry of any such judgment or order, or (ii) after any appeal in good faith of such judgment or order so long as during such appeal any execution of such judgment or order is stayed; or
Judgments
 
     (i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or is reasonably likely to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000; or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000.
ERISA
     . If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
8.02 Remedies Upon Event of Default
     (a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
     (b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
     (c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
     After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03 Application of Funds.
Section 8.02
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
 
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Fourth
     , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
     . Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Wachovia to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.01 Appointment and Authority
     . The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
9.02 Rights as a Lender
     . The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions
     (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
     (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information
 
relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender.
Sections 10.01
8.02
     The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
     . The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
     . The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05 Delegation of Duties
 
     . The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent
provided
Section 10.04
     . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
     . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Joint Bookrunners, Joint Lead Arrangers, Syndication Agent or Co-Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc
     . In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
 
be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise.
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.09
10.04
     (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
     Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
     . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
10.01 Amendments, Etc
provided
however
     (a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
     (b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
 
     (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment or mandatory prepayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) or any scheduled or mandatory reduction of the Aggregate Commitments hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
     (d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or (subject to of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
clause (ii)
Section 10.01
provided
however
     (e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender; or
Section 2.13
Section 8.03
     (f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (ii) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
     .
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
     (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
subsection (b)
     (i) if to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
     (ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
     Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be
 
deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in below, shall be effective as provided in such .
subsection (b)
subsection (b)
     (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
     Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
clause (i)
     (c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
 
     (d) . Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.
Change of Address, Etc
     (e) . The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, except to the extent that such losses, claims, expenses or liabilities are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Related Party. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
     . No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
     .
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender) in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
Costs and Expenses
 
     (b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, or (iii) any actual or prospective claim, penalty, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
     (c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under or of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
subsection (a)
(b)
provided
subsection (c)
Section 2.12(d)
     (d)  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
subsection (b)
 
transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence of willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
     (e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
     (f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
     To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05 Payments Set Aside.
plus
clause (b)
     .
10.06 Successors and Assigns
     (a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
subsection (b)
subsection (d)
subsection (f)
subsection (d)
     (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a
Assignments by Lenders
 
portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
provided
(i) .
Minimum Amounts
     (A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
     (B) in any case not described in of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
subsection (b)(i)(A)
provided
however
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned.
Proportionate Amounts
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
subsection (b)(i)(B)
     (A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
     (B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to be a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
 
recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
     Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with of this Section.
subsection (c)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
subsection (d)
     (c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
     (d). Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
 
     Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that adversely affects such Participant. Subject to of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
subsection (e)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
subsection (b)
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.13
     (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
     (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
     (g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature", and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
     . Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or any of its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
 
connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
     For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
     Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
     . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.08 Right of Setoff
provided
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
 
exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Maximum Rate
     . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall become effective when they shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement and any other Loan Document by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
     . All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied; that such representations and warranties shall only be made or deemed made as of the dates explicitly required herein or therein. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender.
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties
provided
     . If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability
     . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without
10.13 Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
 
recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Section 10.06
provided
     (a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
     (b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
     (c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
     (d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
     A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
     .
10.14 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
     (a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW
     (b) . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY OF THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO OR THEIR PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
     (c) . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
     (d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
     . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.15 Waiver of Jury Trial
     . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, the Borrower is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification thereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and each Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any
10.16 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or any Arranger has advised or is currently advising the Borrower or any of its Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and each Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and each Arranger have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate. The Borrower hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and each Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
     . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
10.17 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
 
     the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
EXHIBIT A
Date: ,
                    
                    
                    
To: Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
      A Borrowing of Loans            A conversion or continuation of Loans
o
o
     The Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.01
 
EXHIBIT B
                    
                    
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the "") hereby promises to pay to or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
                    
Lender
Agreement
     The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
     This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
     THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
 
 
EXHIBIT C
Financial Statement Date: ,
                     
           
To: Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
                     
                     
                     
     1. Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(a)
     1. Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(b)
     2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
     3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
 
     
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.]
     
[the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
     4. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedule 2
     the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of , .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
                     
          
 
For the Quarter/Year ended ("")
                     
                     
Statement Date
     
Section 7.06  Ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization.
 
EXHIBIT D
     This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between Assignor identified in item 1 below ("") and Assignee identified in below (""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
[the][each]
2
[the][each, an]
Assignor
[the][each]
item 2
[the][each, an]
Assignee
[It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
3
hereunder are several and not joint.]
4
Credit Agreement
     For an agreed consideration, Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to , and Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from , subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of rights and obligations in under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of under the respective facilities identified below and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned by Assignor to Assignee pursuant to above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to and above being referred to herein collectively as ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by Assignor.
[the][each]
[the Assignee][the respective Assignees]
[the][each]
[the Assignor][the respective Assignors]
[the Assignor's][the respective Assignors']
[its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders]
[the Assignor][the respective Assignors]
[
][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)]
[the][any]
[the][any]
clause (i)
clauses (i)
(ii)
[the][an]
Assigned Interest
[the][any]
[the][any]
 
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                     
                     
      
 
 
     The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
[Consented to and] Accepted: WACHOVIA BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as   Administrative Agent
11
 
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
     1. .
Representations and Warranties
     1.1. . Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of Assigned Interest, (ii) Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
[The][Each]
[the][the relevant]
[the][such]
     1.2. . Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under , and of the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type presented by Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase Assigned Interest, (vi) it has independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it
Assignee
[The][Each]
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
[the][the relevant]
[the][such]
[the][such]
Section 6.01
[the][such]
[the][such]
[the][such]
[the][any]
 
shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
     2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
[the][each]
[the][the relevant]
[the][relevant]
     3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT E-1
 
EXHIBIT E-2

 
Exhibit 10.2
Published CUSIP Number: XXXXXXXXX
 
 
 
 
 
 
     (this "") is entered into as of November 16, 2007, among , a New Jersey corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and as Administrative Agent.
THIS 364-DAY CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
VIRGINIA HOLDCO, INC.
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
     The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
     . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms
     "" means a fixed rate of interest expressed in multiples of 1/100th of one basis point.
Absolute Rate
     "" means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate determined with reference to an Absolute Rate.
Absolute Rate Loan
     "" means the acquisition by the Borrower of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Target and its Subsidiaries as described in the Acquisition Agreement.
Acquisition
     "" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 19, 2007, by and among the Borrower, the Target, VMC, Virginia Merger Sub, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, and Fresno Merger Sub, Inc., a Florida corporation, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 9, 2007 and as further amended from time to time.
Acquisition Agreement
     "" means, collectively, the Acquisition Agreement and all other material agreements executed in connection with the Acquisition, as amended from time to time.
Acquisition Documents
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
     "" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
     "" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Agreement
     "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
     "" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
     "" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the Pricing Level for the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 4 being the lowest); (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply; and (c) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level 4 shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the publicly announced Debt Rating in effect on the Closing Date. Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement or publication thereof by S&P or Moody's, respectively, or, in the absence of such announcement or publication, on the effective date of such changed Debt Rating, and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
 
     "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     "" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, each in its capacity as a joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner.
Arrangers
     "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit E
     "" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.06
Section 8.02
     "" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
     "" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate". The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
plus
     "" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
     "" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Bid Loans of the same Type from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Bid Loans as part of such borrowing has been accepted under the auction bidding procedures described in .
Bid Borrowing
Section 2.03
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Bid Loan
Section 2.03(a)
     "" means, in respect of any Bid Loan, the Lender making such Bid Loan to the Borrower.
Bid Loan Lender
     "" means an amount equal to $200,000,000. The Bid Loan Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Bid Loan Sublimit
 
     "" means a written request for one or more Bid Loans substantially in the form of .
Bid Request
Exhibit B-1
     "" means Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, to be re-named "Vulcan Materials Company" on or about the Closing Date.
Borrower
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
     "" means a Committed Borrowing or a Bid Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
     "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the State of North Carolina and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
     "" means any nonredeemable capital stock of the Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary (to the extent issued to a Person other than the Borrower), whether common or preferred.
Capital Stock
     "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
     "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to make Committed Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement. The aggregate amount of the Commitments on the Closing Date is $500,000,000.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
     "" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar
Committed Loan Notice
 
Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
     "" means a written offer by a Lender to make one or more Bid Loans, substantially in the form of , duly completed and signed by a Lender.
Competitive Bid
Exhibit B-2
     "" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit D
     "" means at any date all obligations for indebtedness for borrowed money shown on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date (or would be if a balance sheet were prepared on such date); that indebtedness for borrowed money of any Partially Owned Subsidiary which is a Consolidated Subsidiary shall be equal to the Guaranteed Amount, if any, of such indebtedness.
Consolidated Debt
provided
     "" means at any date any Subsidiary or other entity the accounts of which, in accordance with GAAP, are consolidated with those of any Person in its consolidated financial statements as of such date.
Consolidated Subsidiary
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Controlled Group
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate".
Debt Rating
     "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
     "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means an interest rate equal to (a) the Base Rate (b) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan 2% per annum.
Default Rate
plus
provided
however
plus
     "" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good
Defaulting Lender
 
faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
     "" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
     "" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
     "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
     "" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived, with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA or contributions to a Pension Plan in the ordinary course, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
     "" means the margin above or below the Eurodollar Rate to be added to or subtracted from the Eurodollar Rate, which margin shall be expressed in multiples of 1/100th of one basis point.
Eurodollar Bid Margin
     "" means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate based upon the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan
 
     "" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
     Where,
     "" means, for such Interest Period, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
     "" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan
     "" means a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan or a Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
     "" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage. The LIBOR Daily Floating Rate for each outstanding LIBOR Floating Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
     "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its
Excluded Taxes
 
principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
     "" means the Existing Vulcan Credit Facilities and the Existing Target Credit Facility.
Existing Credit Facilities
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 27, 2004 among the Target, material domestic subsidiaries from time to time parties thereto, lenders parties thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, as amended.
Existing Target Credit Facility
     "" means the credit facility provided under the Existing Vulcan 364-Day Credit Agreement and the Existing Vulcan Five-Year Credit Agreement, respectively.
Existing Vulcan Credit Facilities
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006 by and among VMC, the lenders party thereto from time to time, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006 and Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2007.
Existing Vulcan Five-Year Credit Agreement
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006 among VMC, the lenders party thereto from time to time, and Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2007.
Existing Vulcan 364-Day Credit Agreement
     "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
 
     "" means, collectively, (a) the letter agreement, dated May 29, 2007, among the Borrower and the Arrangers and (b) the letter agreement, dated May 29, 2007, between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Fee Letter
     "" means that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007, by and among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto.
Five-Year Working Capital Credit Agreement
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
     "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
     "" by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (a) to secure, purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to provide collateral security, to take-or-pay, or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (b) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part); that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The term "Guarantee" used as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
provided
 
     "" means, with respect to the Indebtedness of another Person, the aggregate amount for which the Borrower is liable (whether by Guarantee or as a general partner or otherwise, but excluding any amounts with respect to which the Borrower is expressly exculpated).
Guaranteed Amount
     "" of any Person means at any date, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, (d) the capitalized amount of all obligations of such Person as lessee under capital leases (excluding all Synthetic Lease Obligations) that are required to be accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, (e) all obligations of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts payable under a banker's acceptance, (f) all obligations (contingent or otherwise) of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts paid or to be paid under a drawn letter of credit or similar instrument, (g) all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by such Person, and (h) all Indebtedness of others Guaranteed by such Person.
Indebtedness
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
     "" means, (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date, and (c) as to any LIBOR Floating Rate Loan, the first Business Day of each month and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
     "" means (a) as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or (in the case of any Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan) converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice or Bid Request, as the case may be; and (b) as to each Absolute Rate Loan, a period of not less than seven days and not more than 360 days as selected by the Borrower in its Bid Request; that:
Interest Period
provided
     (a) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
     (b) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar
 
month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
     (c) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
     "" means, with respect to the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate, the first day of each month; , , that if such date is not a Business Day, then the "Interest Rate Change Date" shall be the next succeeding Business Day.
Interest Rate Change Date
provided
however
     "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
     "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
     "" means a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
LIBOR Daily Floating Rate
     Where,
     "" means, for all Loans, on any day any such Loan is outstanding, the fluctuating rate of interest (rounded upwards, as necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) Business Days prior to the most recent Interest Rate Change Date, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on such Interest Rate Change Date) with a term of one month, as adjusted from time to time in the Administrative Agent's sole discretion for changes in deposit insurance requirements and other regulatory costs. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBOR Daily Floating Base Rate" shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Dollar denominated Loans outstanding with a term equivalent to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time), on each day any such Loan is outstanding.
LIBOR Daily Floating Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
 
     "" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate.
LIBOR Floating Rate Loan
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or other security interest or encumbrance (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any capital lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
     "" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan or a Bid Loan.
Loan
Article II
     "" means this Agreement, each Note and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
     "" means (a) a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties or financial condition of the Borrower, VMC, the Target and their respective Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Document; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of any Loan Document.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means the later of (a) the date that is 364 days after the Closing Date (the "") and (b) if maturity is extended pursuant to , the date that is 364 days after the Original Maturity Date; , , that, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
Original Maturity Date
Section 2.15
provided
however
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit C
     "" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities and other monetary obligations of, the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
     "" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint
Organization Documents
 
venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
     "" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document. "Other Taxes" shall not include any Taxes imposed on (or measured by reference to) gross income, net income, or gain.
Other Taxes
     "" means, with respect to Committed Loans and Bid Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Committed Loans and Bid Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date.
Outstanding Amount
     "" means a Subsidiary that is not a Wholly Owned Subsidiary.
Partially Owned Subsidiary
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
     "" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
     "" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
     (a) Liens imposed by law or any Governmental Authority for taxes, assessments or charges that are not yet due or are being contested;
     (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or where the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
     (c) pledges and deposits made in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
     (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
 
     (e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default; and
     (f) easements, zoning restrictions, minor title imperfections, restrictions on use, rights of way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries;
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code and is either (a) maintained by a member of the Controlled Group for employees of any member of the Controlled Group or (b) maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or any other arrangement under which more than one employer makes contributions and to which a member of the Controlled Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions.
Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
     "" means all real property owned, leased or otherwise used or occupied by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, wherever located.
Properties
     "" means all rights of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries to payment, whether constituting an account, chattel paper, instrument, general intangible or otherwise, arising from the sale of goods or services (including rights under bill and hold arrangements) by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (and including the right to payment of any interest or finance charges and other obligations with respect thereto).
Receivables
     "" means any transaction or series of transactions that may be entered into by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries pursuant to which the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to the Receivables Subsidiary and, in the case of a transfer by the Receivables Subsidiary, any other Person, or may grant a security interest in, any Receivables (whether now existing or arising in the future); that:
Receivables Securitization
provided
     (a) no portion of the indebtedness or any other obligations (contingent or otherwise) of a Receivables Subsidiary (i) is guaranteed by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary and excluding guarantees of obligations pursuant to customary securitization undertakings), (ii) is recourse to or obligates the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) for payment other than pursuant to customary securitization undertakings or (iii) subjects any property or asset of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary), directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction of
 
obligations incurred in such transactions, other than pursuant to customary securitization undertakings;
     (b) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) do not have any obligation to maintain or preserve the financial condition of the Receivables Subsidiary or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results; and
     (c) fair value has been received.
     "" means a special purpose corporation that is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower, whose primary business shall be the acquisition of Receivables pursuant to the Receivables Securitization and those activities incidental to the Receivables Securitization.
Receivables Subsidiary
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
     "" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed in the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means (a) with respect to a Committed Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, and (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, a Bid Request.
Request for Borrowing
     "" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans has been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings; that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
     "" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of the Borrower and, solely for purposes of notices given pursuant to , any other officer or employee of the Borrower so designated by any of the foregoing officers in a notice to the Administrative Agent. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
Article II
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
 
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC, all as amended.
Securities Laws
     "" means, at any time, the shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as set forth or reflected on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
     "" means any Subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC.
Significant Subsidiary
     "" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
     "" means all obligations of such Person with respect to interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements or other hedging arrangements (valued for any SWAP Obligation at any date, as the net payments that such Person would have to make in the event of an early termination of the applicable agreement on such date).
SWAP Obligations
     "" means any operating lease under GAAP for which the lessee retains federal tax ownership of the property leased.
Synthetic Lease
     "" means any and all liabilities, indebtedness, rent, and all other obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary owed under any Synthetic Lease.
Synthetic Lease Obligations
     "" means Florida Rock Industries, Inc., a Florida corporation.
Target
     "" means the merger of Fresno Merger Sub, Inc., a Florida corporation, with and into the Target, with the Target as the surviving corporation of such merger.
Target Merger
     "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings or like charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
     "" means the sum of (a) Shareholders' Equity (b) Consolidated Debt.
Total Capitalization
plus
     "" means on any date the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans.
Total Outstandings
 
     "" means (a) the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the borrowings hereunder and (b) the consummation of the Acquisition, the Target Merger, the Vulcan Merger and the other transactions to occur pursuant to the Acquisition Documents.
Transactions
     "" means (a) with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan, a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan, and (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, its character as an Absolute Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan.
Type
     "" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
     "" means Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation and the surviving entity of the VMC Merger, to be renamed "VMC Corp." on or about the Closing Date.
VMC
     "" means the merger of Virginia Merger Sub, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, with and into Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation, with Vulcan Materials Company as the surviving corporation of such merger.
Vulcan Merger
     "" means any Subsidiary all of the shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors' qualifying shares) are at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Borrower.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
     "" mean, collectively, (a) the 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007, by and among the Borrower, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, (b) the Five-Year Working Capital Credit Agreement, and (c) any revolving credit or comparable credit agreement dated on or after the Closing Date by and among the Target and any financial institutions thereto.
Working Capital Credit Facilities
     . With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
     (a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "", "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "". Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "", "" and "", and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified,
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
 
refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
asset
property
     (b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ""; the words "" and "" each mean ""; and the word "" means "".
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
     (c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
     . (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the applicable period, as in effect from time to time, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
1.03 Accounting Terms
Generally
except
     (b) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
     . Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04 Rounding
     . Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.05 Times of Day
     . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower
2.01 Committed Loans
Committed Loan
 
from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
provided
however
Section 2.01
Section 2.05
Section 2.01
     .
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
     (a) Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
Section 2.02(a)
     (b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a
 
Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Borrowing, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
     (c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
     (e) After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
     
2.03 Bid Loans.
     (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees that the Borrower may from time to time request the Lenders to submit offers to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower prior to the Maturity Date pursuant to this ; , , that after giving effect to any Bid Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Bid Loans shall not exceed the Bid Loan Sublimit. There shall not be more than ten different Interest Periods in effect with respect to Bid Loans at any time.
General
Bid Loan
Section 2.03
provided
however
     (b) . The Borrower may request the submission of Competitive Bids by delivering a Bid Request to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) one Business Day prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) four Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans. Each Bid Request shall specify (i) the requested date of the Bid Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Bid Loans requested (which must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof), (iii) the Type of Bid Loans requested, and (iv) the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, and shall be signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. No Bid Request shall contain a request for (i) more than one Type of Bid Loan or (ii) Bid Loans having more than three different Interest Periods. Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise
Requesting Competitive Bids
 
agrees in its sole and absolute discretion, the Borrower may not submit a Bid Request if it has submitted another Bid Request within the prior five Business Days.
     (c) .
Submitting Competitive Bids
     (i) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of each Bid Request received by it from the Borrower and the contents of such Bid Request.
     (ii) Each Lender may (but shall have no obligation to) submit a Competitive Bid containing an offer to make one or more Bid Loans in response to such Bid Request. Such Competitive Bid must be delivered to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:30 a.m. (A) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (B) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans; , , that any Competitive Bid submitted by Bank of America in its capacity as a Lender in response to any Bid Request must be submitted to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:15 a.m. on the date on which Competitive Bids are required to be delivered by the other Lenders in response to such Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (A) the proposed date of the Bid Borrowing; (B) the principal amount of each Bid Loan for which such Competitive Bid is being made, which principal amount (x) may be equal to, greater than or less than the Commitment of the bidding Lender, (y) must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof, and (z) may not exceed the principal amount of Bid Loans for which Competitive Bids were requested; (C) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, the Absolute Rate offered for each such Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; (D) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Eurodollar Bid Margin with respect to each such Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; and (E) the identity of the bidding Lender.
provided
however
     (iii) Any Competitive Bid shall be disregarded if it (A) is received after the applicable time specified in above, (B) is not substantially in the form of a Competitive Bid as specified herein, (C) contains qualifying, conditional or similar language, (D) proposes terms other than or in addition to those set forth in the applicable Bid Request, or (E) is otherwise not responsive to such Bid Request. Any Lender may correct a Competitive Bid containing a manifest error by submitting a corrected Competitive Bid (identified as such) not later than the applicable time required for submission of Competitive Bids. Any such submission of a corrected Competitive Bid shall constitute a revocation of the Competitive Bid that contained the manifest error. The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, notify any Lender of any manifest error it detects in such Lender's Competitive Bid.
clause (ii)
     (iv) Subject only to the provisions of , and and above, each Competitive Bid shall be irrevocable.
Sections 3.02
3.03
4.02
clause (iii)
     (d) . Not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar
Notice to Borrower of Competitive Bids
 
Margin Bid Loans, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of the identity of each Lender that has submitted a Competitive Bid that complies with Section 2.03(c) and of the terms of the offers contained in each such Competitive Bid.
     (e) . Not later than 11:30 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of its acceptance or rejection of the offers notified to it pursuant to . The Borrower shall be under no obligation to accept any Competitive Bid and may choose to reject all Competitive Bids. In the case of acceptance, such notice shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bids for each Interest Period that is accepted. The Borrower may accept any Competitive Bid in whole or in part; that:
Acceptance of Competitive Bids
Section 2.03(d)
provided
     (i) the aggregate principal amount of each Bid Borrowing may not exceed the applicable amount set forth in the related Bid Request;
     (ii) the principal amount of each Bid Loan must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof;
     (iii) the acceptance of offers may be made only on the basis of ascending Absolute Rates or Eurodollar Bid Margins within each Interest Period; and
     (iv) the Borrower may not accept any offer that is described in or that otherwise fails to comply with the requirements hereof.
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
     (f) . If two or more Lenders have submitted Competitive Bids at the same Absolute Rate or Eurodollar Bid Margin, as the case may be, for the same Interest Period, and the result of accepting all of such Competitive Bids in whole (together with any other Competitive Bids at lower Absolute Rates or Eurodollar Bid Margins, as the case may be, accepted for such Interest Period in conformity with the requirements of ) would be to cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the applicable Bid Borrowing to exceed the amount specified therefor in the related Bid Request, then, unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and such Lenders, such Competitive Bids shall be accepted as nearly as possible in proportion to the amount offered by each such Lender in respect of such Interest Period, with such accepted amounts being rounded to the nearest whole multiple of $1,000,000.
Procedure for Identical Bids
Section 2.03(e)(iii)
     (g) . The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender having submitted a Competitive Bid whether or not its offer has been accepted and, if its offer has been accepted, of the amount of the Bid Loan or Bid Loans to be made by it on the date of the applicable Bid Borrowing. Any Competitive Bid or portion thereof that is not accepted by the Borrower by the applicable time specified in shall be deemed rejected.
Notice to Lenders of Acceptance or Rejection of Bids
Section 2.03(e)
     (h) . If any Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Loans, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Eurodollar Rate for the relevant
Notice of Eurodollar Rate
 
Interest Period, and promptly after making such determination, shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that will be participating in such Bid Borrowing of such Eurodollar Rate.
     (i) . Each Lender that has received notice pursuant to that all or a portion of its Competitive Bid has been accepted by the Borrower shall make the amount of its Bid Loan(s) available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the requested Bid Borrowing. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
Funding of Bid Loans
Section 2.03(g)
Section 4.02
     (j) . After each Competitive Bid auction pursuant to this , the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender that submitted a Competitive Bid in such auction of the ranges of bids submitted (without the bidder's name) and accepted for each Bid Loan and the aggregate amount of each Bid Borrowing.
Notice of Range of Bids
Section 2.03
     
2.04 [Reserved.]
     .
2.05 Prepayments
     (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice (which may be conditional) must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be repaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
provided
Section 3.05
     (b) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall, on the next Business Day following the date on which the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent, prepay Loans in an aggregate amount equal to such excess.
 
     (c) No Bid Loan may be prepaid without the prior consent of the applicable Bid Loan Lender.
     . The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (a) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (b) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (c) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (d) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Bid Loan Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, the Bid Loan Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination
2.06 Termination or Reduction of Commitments
provided
     . The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans outstanding on such date.
2.07 Repayment of Loans
     .
2.08 Interest
     (a) At the Borrower's option, subject to the provisions of below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate; (iii) each Bid Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for the Interest Period therefor at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period (or ) the Eurodollar Bid Margin, or at the Absolute Rate for such Interest Period, as the case may be; and (iv) each LIBOR Floating Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate the Applicable Rate.
subsection (b)
plus
plus
minus
plus
(b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating
 
interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iii) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
     (c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
     .
2.09 Fees
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Total Outstandings), regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Loans remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
     (b) . The Borrower shall pay to each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Other Fees
     . All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
2.10 Computation of Interest and Fees
provided
Section 2.12(a)
 
     . The Borrowings made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Borrowings made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
2.11 Evidence of Debt
     .
2.12 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
     (a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 3:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 3:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
(b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, prior to 1:00 p.m. on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
 
from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, any administrative processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
plus
     (ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
     A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
subsection (b)
     (c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Borrowing set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
     (d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
 
responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Section 10.04(c)
     (e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
     . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
2.13 Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro
rata
provided
     (i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
     (ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
     The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
     .
2.14 Increase in Commitments
     (a) . Provided there exists no Default and no Default would result therefrom, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments (an "") by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $500,000,000; that (i) any such request for an Increase shall be in a minimum amount of $25,000,000, and (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of five such requests; , , the amount of Increases hereunder the amount of Increases under the Five-Year Working
Request for Increase
Increase
provided
provided
however
plus
 
Capital Credit Agreement (as such term is defined therein) shall not exceed, in the aggregate, $500,000,000. At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
     (b) . Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested Increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
     (c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested Increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower may also invite Eligible Assignees to become additional Lenders ("") pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel; , that the Borrower may only invite such Additional Lenders after each existing Lender has notified the Administrative Agent of its decision in accordance with above, and any such invitation to such Additional Lenders shall only be with respect to amounts declined or deemed to be declined by existing Lenders.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
Additional Lenders
provided
however
clause (b)
     (d) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such Increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the final allocation of such Increase and the Increase Effective Date.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
     (e) . As a condition precedent to each Increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Borrower as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Borrower approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) certifying that, before and after giving effect to such Increase, no Default exists or would result from such Increase. The Borrower shall prepay Committed Loans outstanding to all or certain of the Lenders on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) and/or borrow Committed Loans from all or certain of the Lenders on the Increase Effective Date to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Section 3.05
     (f) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.13
10.01
 
     .
2.15 Extension of Maturity Date
     (a) . The Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not more than 90 days but not less than 60 days prior to the date that is 364 days after the Closing Date then in effect hereunder, request that each Lender extend the Maturity Date (the "") for one additional 364-day period.
Requests for Extension
Original Maturity Date
     (b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not earlier than 30 days prior to the Original Maturity Date and not later than the date (the "") that is 20 days prior to the Original Maturity Date, advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (and each Lender that determines not to so extend their Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Notice Date) and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Non-Extending Lender
     (c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date 15 days prior to the Original Maturity Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
Notification by Administrative Agent
     (d) . The Borrower shall have the right to replace each Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "") as provided in , that each of such Additional Commitment Lenders shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the Original Maturity Date, undertake a Commitment (and, if any such Additional Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Commitment hereunder on such date).
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 10.13
provided
     (e) . If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Maturity Date (each, an "") shall be more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Original Maturity Date, then, effective as of the Original Maturity Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling 364 days after the Original Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
Extending Lender
     (f) . As a condition precedent to such extension, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate dated as of the Original Maturity Date (in sufficient copies for each Extending Lender and each Additional Commitment Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Borrower approving or consenting to such extension and (ii) certifying that the representation and warranty contained in is true and correct
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
Section 5.04(c)
 
on and as of the Original Maturity Date. In addition, on the Maturity Date of each Non-Extending Lender, the Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
Section 3.05
     (g) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.13
10.01
     .
3.01 Taxes
     (a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
     (b) . Without limiting the provisions of above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
subsection (a)
     (c) . Without duplication of any additional amounts paid pursuant to , the Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within ten days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority, that, if the Borrower determines that any such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were not correctly or legally imposed or asserted, the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as applicable, shall allow the Borrower to contest (and shall cooperate in such contest), the imposition of such Tax upon the reasonable request of the Borrower and at the Borrower's expense; , , that the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as applicable, shall not be required to participate in any contest that would, in its reasonable judgment, expose it to a material commercial disadvantage or require it to disclose any information it considers confidential or proprietary. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower
Indemnification by the Borrower
Section 3.01(a)
provided
provided
however
 
by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive; that such amounts are determined on a reasonable basis.
provided
     (d) . As soon as reasonably practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
     (e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Each Lender shall promptly provide such forms upon becoming aware of the obsolescence, expiration or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Lender (unless it is legally unable to do so as a result of a Change in Law) and shall promptly notify the Borrower at any time it determines that any previously delivered forms are no longer valid.
Status of Lenders
     Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
     (i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
     (ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
     (iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
 
     (iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
     (f) . If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its reasonable discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes or determines in its sole discretion exercised in good faith that it has obtained the benefit of a credit for Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund or the net benefit attributable to such credit (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund or credit), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund or credit), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower ( any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund or credit to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it reasonably deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds and Credits
provided
plus
     . If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.02 Illegality
     . If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
 
Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
     .
3.04 Increased Costs
     (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate);
     (ii) subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
Section 3.01
     (iii) impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) . If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
 
     (c) . A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in or of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error; that such determinations are made on a reasonable basis. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within ten days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
subsection (a)
(b)
provided
     (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
     . Upon written request of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent, which shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for requesting such amounts), from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
     (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
     (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
     (c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary out-of-pocket administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
     For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
 
     .
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
     (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
     (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
     . All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07 Survival
Article III
     . The obligation of each Lender to make its initial Borrowing hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Initial Borrowing
     (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
     (i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
     (ii) a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note at least two Business Days prior to the Closing Date;
     (iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require evidencing the authority of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party;
 
     (iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed, and that the Borrower is validly existing and in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization;
     (v) (i) an opinion of in-house counsel for the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in the form of and (ii) an opinion of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen, & Katz, special counsel for the Borrower, in the form of ;
Exhibit E-1
Exhibit E-2
     (vi) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that there has been no event or circumstance since December 31, 2006, that has had or could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (vii) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying as to the accuracy and completeness of the Acquisition Documents, copies of which shall be attached thereto, and certifying that the Acquisition shall have been, or substantially simultaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement shall be, consummated;
     (viii) satisfactory evidence that the Existing Credit Facilities shall have been, or will be substantially contemporaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement, terminated and repaid in full;
     (ix) satisfactory evidence that (A) the Five-Year Working Capital Credit Agreement and (B) the 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement, dated on or about the date hereof, by and among the Borrower, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto shall have been, or will be substantially contemporaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement, consummated; and
     (x) such other documents as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
     (b) The Acquisition shall have been, or substantially simultaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement shall be, consummated on or before November 30, 2007 in accordance with the Acquisition Agreement. The Acquisition Documents shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers, it being understood that the Acquisition Agreement dated as of February 19, 2007, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 9, 2007, is satisfactory to the Arrangers. All conditions precedent to the consummation of the Acquisition shall have been satisfied or waived (with the prior consent of the Arrangers if the Arrangers reasonably determine such waiver is materially adverse to the Lenders).
     (c) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
     (d) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced two Business Days prior to the Closing Date, such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to
plus
 
be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
     . The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Borrowing (other than the initial funding on the Closing Date, a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to all Borrowings
     (a) All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (except for the representations and warranties contained in and hereof) that are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing, and all representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (except for the representations and warranties contained in and hereof) that are not qualified by materiality shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Borrowing, except, in each case, to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date.
Article V
Sections 5.04(c)
5.05
Article V
Sections 5.04(c)
5.05
     (b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
     (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received a Request for Borrowing in accordance with the requirements hereof.
     Each Request for Borrowing (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Borrowing.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
     . The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, is duly qualified to transact business in every jurisdiction where the failure to qualify would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and has all
5.01 Existence, Qualification and Power
 
corporate powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted except to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents (a) are within the Borrower's corporate powers, (b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, (c) require no approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person, except as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (d) do not violate or constitute a default under, (i) any provision of applicable law or regulation, (ii) any material agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other material instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (iii) the Organization Documents of the Borrower, and (e) do not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the material assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except in each case referred to in , or to the extent such conflict, breach or violation would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.02 Authorization; No Contravention; Governmental Authorization
clauses (d)(i)
(d)(ii)
(e)
     . This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the Notes and the other Loan Documents, when executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, that the enforceability hereof and thereof is subject in each case to general principles of equity and to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights generally, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
5.03 Binding Effect
provided
     .
5.04 Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
     (a) The audited consolidated balance sheet of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (i) was prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (ii) fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein.
     (b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries dated March 31, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of and , to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.
clauses (i)
(ii)
 
     (c) Since December 31, 2006, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . Except as disclosed in any SEC filings of the Borrower, VMC or the Target made prior to the Closing Date, there is no action, suit or proceeding pending, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened in writing, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner draws into question the validity of or which involves this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Documents.
5.05 Litigation
     . There have been filed on behalf of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries all Federal income tax returns and all other material income, excise, property and other tax returns which are required to be filed by them and all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary have been paid, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.
5.06 Taxes
     .
5.07 ERISA Compliance
     (a) With respect to each Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan), the Borrower and each member of the Controlled Group have fulfilled their obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code and are in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, and have not incurred any material liability to the PBGC (other than for premiums due but not yet delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA) or a Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) under Title IV of ERISA (other than contributions in the ordinary course).
     (b) Neither the Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has incurred any withdrawal liability with respect to any Multiemployer Plan under Title IV of ERISA that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and no such liability is expected to be incurred that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     .
5.08 Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
     (a) The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
     (b) The Borrower is not and is not required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
     . No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), taken as a whole and including the information
5.09 Disclosure
 
contained in any filings made with the SEC by the Borrower, VMC or the Target, contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading at the time made; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by the Borrower to be reasonable at the time.
provided
     . The Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions, executive orders and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10 Compliance with Laws
     . The Borrower's true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
5.11 Taxpayer Identification Number
Schedule 10.02
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall:
     . Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.01 Financial Statements
     (a) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all accompanied by a report thereon of a Registered Public Accounting Firm, with such certification to be free of a going concern qualification or qualification as to the scope of audit; and
     (b) as soon as available, but in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007), (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal quarter and the related statement of income, and (ii) a statement of cash flows for the portion of the fiscal year ended at the end of such fiscal quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form, respectively, the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all certified (subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes) as to fairness of presentation and GAAP by the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of the Borrower.
 
     As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under or above, and to the extent that the Borrower has filed a Form 10K or Form 10Q for the respective financial period with the SEC, it shall be deemed to have satisfied and above.
Section 6.02(b)
clause (a)
(b)
clauses (a)
(b)
     . Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
     (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and (commencing with the delivery of the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
     (b) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
     (c) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
     Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet, at ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that makes a written request to the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender. Except for Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(b)
www.sec.gov
provided
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.,
 
public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). The Borrower hereby agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC", the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated "Public Investor". Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC".
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
     . Promptly, but in any event, within five (5) Business Days of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower becoming aware thereof, notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
     (a) of the occurrence of any Default that is continuing; and
     (b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a contractual obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws.
     Each notice pursuant to this shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with reasonable particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03
Section 6.03(a)
     . Pay and discharge all its material obligations and liabilities prior to such obligations or liabilities being delinquent, including all Federal income taxes and all other material tax liabilities, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary, except where the failure to so pay, discharge, contest or maintain reserves would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.04 Payment of Obligations
     . (a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation except in a
6.05 Preservation of Existence
 
transaction permitted hereunder; (b) preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, except where the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that the Borrower determines such action is not necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof, except where the Borrower determines such action is not necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.06 Maintenance of Properties
     . Maintain insurance, or adequate reserves in lieu of insurance, against loss to all property owned by it material to its business in comparable amounts and against such risks as are usually insured against in the same general locale by companies of established repute engaged in the same or similar business.
6.07 Self-Insurance
     . Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08 Compliance with Laws
     . (a) Keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities sufficient to permit the preparation of statements in conformity with GAAP; and (b) permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine extracts from its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its officers and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as applicable, to the extent reasonably requested and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower, but not more frequently than once per every 12 month period, , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower as often as may be reasonably requested.
6.09 Books and Records; Inspection Rights
provided
however
     . Use the proceeds of the Borrowings solely (a) for the payment of amounts payable under the Acquisition Documents as consideration for the Acquisition, (b) for the payment of fees, commissions and expenses payable in connection with the Transactions, (c) to refinance all indebtedness outstanding under the Existing Credit Facilities, (d) to provide liquidity for ordinary course commercial paper credit facilities to which the Borrower is a party
6.10 Use of Proceeds
 
and commercial paper issued by the Borrower on or about the Closing Date the proceeds of which are used to finance the Acquisition in part, and (e) for ongoing working capital requirements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and for general corporate purposes.
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, or any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall not, directly or indirectly:
     . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
7.01 Liens
     (a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
     (b) Liens existing on the date of this Agreement;
     (c) Liens on any asset securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing, refinancing or refunding all or any part of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such asset; that such Lien attaches to such asset concurrently with or within 18 months after the acquisition or completion of construction thereof;
provided
     (d) Liens on any asset of any Person existing at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such event;
     (e) Liens existing on any asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such acquisition;
     (f) Liens in favor of any Subsidiary;
     (g) Liens arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal, refunding or replacement of any Indebtedness secured by any Lien permitted by any of the foregoing paragraphs of this ; that the amount of such Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is not increased;
Section 7.01
provided
     (h) Liens incidental to the conduct of its business or the ownership of its assets which (i) do not secure Indebtedness and (ii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
     (i) Liens on margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB);
     (j) Liens on Receivables pursuant to a bona fide Receivables Securitization;
     (k) Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing subsections of this securing Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed 20% of Shareholders' Equity; and
Section 7.01
 
     (l) Permitted Encumbrances.
     . Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into any other Person (other than the Transactions), that the Borrower may enter into any such transaction with another Person so long as (a) the Borrower is the surviving entity, or the surviving entity is a Person is organized under the laws of the United States of America or one of its States or Commonwealths or the District of Columbia and expressly assumes in writing the obligations set forth under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (b) such Person is engaged in lines of business substantially similar to those lines of business conducted by the Borrower on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto or logical extensions thereof, (c) prior to giving effect to such transaction, each of S&P and Moody's shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a ratings letter indicating that, after giving effect to such transaction, the Surviving Person shall have a Debt Rating of not less than BBB-/Baa3, as applicable, and (d) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
7.02 Fundamental Changes
provided
     . Sell, lease or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, unless (a) such sale, lease or other transfer is to the Borrower or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary, or (b) such sale or other transfer consists of the sale of Receivables pursuant to a Receivables Securitization.
7.03 Sales of Assets
     . Suffer or permit the dissolution or liquidation of any Significant Subsidiary, except (a) in connection with a corporate reorganization of the Borrower permitted by , or (b) in connection with the sale of a Subsidiary or its assets permitted pursuant to .
7.04 Dissolution
Section 7.02
Section 7.03
     . Use the proceeds of any Borrowing, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
7.05 Use of Proceeds
     . Permit the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization at any time to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00; , , that if in connection with a Specified Acquisition, (i) Consolidated Debt has increased as a result of such Specified Acquisition from the amount thereof immediately prior to such Specified Acquisition and (ii) the Administrative Agent has received a Specified Acquisition Notice within ten days after consummation of such Specified Acquisition, then, for a period of 180 consecutive days following the consummation of such Specified Acquisition, the additional Consolidated Debt incurred or assumed in connection with such Specified Acquisition shall be excluded from Consolidated Debt for purposes of calculating the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization so long as such ratio, if calculated without such exclusion, would not exceed 0.75 to 1.00; , that such additional Consolidated Debt shall not be excluded from such ratio if in connection with the related Specified Acquisition, the Borrower's Debt Rating is suspended, withdrawn or reduced to below the Reference Level. For purposes of calculating the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization, Consolidated Debt shall
7.06 Ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
exclude Hybrid Securities to the extent such excluded amount does not exceed 15% of Total Capitalization at such time.
     For purposes of this :
Section 7.06
     (a) "Hybrid Securities" means long-term securities issued by either the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof that (i) are contractually subordinated to senior indebtedness, (ii) mature at least ten years after the issuance thereof, (iii) allow the issuer to temporarily defer the payment of interest, and (iv) receive some degree of equity classification by S&P at the time such securities were issued;
     (b) "Reference Level" means a Debt Rating of BBB or better by S&P or Baa2 or better by Moody's; that if only one of the foregoing Debt Ratings is satisfied, the other Debt Rating is not lower than BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moody's;
provided
     (c) a "Specified Acquisition" means any acquisition by the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower of any Person (the "Specified Acquisition Target") (or substantially all of the assets of any Person or division thereof), that (x) is engaged in lines of business substantially similar to those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto or logical extensions thereof and (y) such Specified Acquisition Target's board of directors have not objected to such acquisition; and
     (d) a "Specified Acquisition Notice" means a notice delivered by the Borrower notifying the Administrative Agent of a Specified Acquisition and stating that the conditions in and to the proviso to the first sentence of above have been satisfied.
clauses (i)
(ii)
Section 7.06
     . Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
8.01 Events of Default
     (a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as due and payable, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
     (b) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of (within 15 days after any financial statements required to be delivered under are due), , (with respect to existence only), or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.01
Section 6.01
6.03
6.05
6.09(b)
6.10
Article VII
     (c) . The Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those covered by or above) and such failure shall not have been cured within 30 days after the earlier to occur of (i) written
Other Defaults
subsection (a)
(b)
 
notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of any Lender and (ii) a Responsible Officer otherwise becomes aware of any such failure; or
     (d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
     (e) . (i) The Borrower shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness under any Working Capital Credit Facility which results in the acceleration of the maturity of such Indebtedness; or (ii) the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (other than the Notes) if the aggregate amount of such payment is equal to or greater than $25,000,000 when due (after any applicable grace period); or (iii) any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations, in each case that are Guaranteed by the Borrower, if the aggregate amount of such payment is equal to or greater than $25,000,000 when due (after any applicable grace period); or (iv) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations in the aggregate outstanding (other than the Notes) equal to or greater than $100,000,000 of the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary) or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holders of such Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (or commitment with respect thereto) or any Person acting on such holders' behalf to accelerate the maturity thereof or terminate any such commitment (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary); or (v) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations in the aggregate outstanding (other than the Notes) of any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary the Guaranteed Amount of which is equal to or greater than $100,000,000 (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary) or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holders of such Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (or commitment with respect thereto) or any Person acting on such holders' behalf to accelerate the maturity thereof or terminate any such commitment (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary); or
Cross-Default
     (f)  The Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any substantial part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc.
 
the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any substantial part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
     (g) . (i) The Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or a substantial part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated, discharged or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
     (h) . One or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary and such judgment or order shall continue unsatisfied and unstayed for a period of 30 days (i) after the entry of any such judgment or order, or (ii) after any appeal in good faith of such judgment or order so long as during such appeal any execution of such judgment or order is stayed; or
Judgments
     (i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or is reasonably likely to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000; or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000.
ERISA
     . If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
8.02 Remedies Upon Event of Default
     (a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
     (b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
     (c) exercise on behalf of itself and the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it and the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
 
     After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03 Application of Funds.
Section 8.02
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal and interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them; and
Fourth
Fourth
     , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
     . Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.01 Appointment and Authority
     . The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with
9.02 Rights as a Lender
 
the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
     . The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions
     (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
     (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender.
Sections 10.01
8.02
     The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
     . The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
     . The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05 Delegation of Duties
     . The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then, unless other arrangements satisfactory to the Administrative Agent have been made, such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent
provided
Section 10.04
 
in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
     . Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
     . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Joint Bookrunners, Joint Lead Arrangers, Syndication Agent or Co-Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc
     . In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.09
10.04
     (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.09
10.04
     Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization,
 
arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
     . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
10.01 Amendments, Etc
provided
however
     (a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
     (b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
     (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment or mandatory prepayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) or any scheduled or mandatory reduction of the Aggregate Commitments hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
     (d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan, or (subject to of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
clause (ii)
Section 10.01
provided
however
     (e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender; or
Section 2.13
Section 8.03
     (f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (ii) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting
provided
further
 
Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
     .
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
     (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
subsection (b)
     (i) if to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
     (ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
     Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in below, shall be effective as provided in such .
subsection (b)
subsection (b)
     (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
     Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
clause (i)
 
     (c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
     (d) . Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for such Lender.
Change of Address, Etc
     (e) . The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, except to the extent that such losses, claims, expenses or liabilities are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Related Party. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
     . No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
 
partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
     .
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender) in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans.
Costs and Expenses
     (b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, or (iii) any actual or prospective claim, penalty, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
     (c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under or of this Section to be paid by
Reimbursement by Lenders
subsection (a)
(b)
 
it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this are subject to the provisions of .
provided
subsection (c)
Section 2.12(d)
     (d)  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence of willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
subsection (b)
     (e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
     (f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
     To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05 Payments Set Aside.
plus
clause (b)
 
     .
10.06 Successors and Assigns
     (a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
subsection (b)
subsection (d)
subsection (f)
subsection (d)
     (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
     (i) .
Minimum Amounts
     (A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
     (B) in any case not described in of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
subsection (b)(i)(A)
provided
however
 
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned.
Proportionate Amounts
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
subsection (b)(i)(B)
     (A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
     (B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to be a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
     Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with of this Section.
subsection (c)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
subsection (d)
     (c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment
Register
 
and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
     (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
     Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that adversely affects such Participant. Subject to of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
subsection (e)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
subsection (b)
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.13
     (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
     (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
 
     (g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature", and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
     . Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or any of its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
     For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
     Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
 
     . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.08 Right of Setoff
provided
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ""). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum Rate
     . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall become effective when they shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement and any other Loan Document by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
     . All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties
 
other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied; that such representations and warranties shall only be made or deemed made as of the dates explicitly required herein or therein. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender.
provided
     . If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability
     . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
10.13 Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.06
provided
     (a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
     (b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
     (c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
     (d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
     A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
     .
10.14 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
     (a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW
 
     (b) . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY OF THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO OR THEIR PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
     (c) . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
     (d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
     . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF
10.15 Waiver of Jury Trial
 
LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
     . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, the Borrower is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification thereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and each Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or any Arranger has advised or is currently advising the Borrower or any of its Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and each Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and each Arranger have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate. The Borrower hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and each Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
10.16 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
     . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all
10.17 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
 
documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
 
     the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
EXHIBIT A
Date: ,
                    
          
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
A Borrowing of Committed Loans            A conversion or continuation of Committed Loans
o
o
     The Committed Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.01
 
EXHIBIT B-1
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
     The Lenders are invited to make Bid Loans:
     The Bid Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of the proviso to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.03(a)
     The Borrower authorizes the Administrative Agent to deliver this Bid Request to the Lenders. Responses by the Lenders must be in substantially the form of to the Agreement and must be received by the Administrative Agent by the time specified in of the Agreement for submitting Competitive Bids.
Exhibit B-2
Section 2.03
 
EXHIBIT B-2
,
                    
                    
                    
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
     In response to the Bid Request dated , 20, the undersigned offers to make the following Bid Loan(s):
                    
          
 
 
     
THIS SECTION IS TO BE COMPLETED BY THE BORROWER IF IT WISHES TO ACCEPT ANY OFFERS CONTAINED IN THIS COMPETITIVE BID:
     The offers made above are hereby accepted in the amounts set forth below:
 
EXHIBIT C
                    
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the "") hereby promises to pay to or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
                    
                    
                    
Lender
Agreement
     The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
     This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
     THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
 
 
EXHIBIT D
Financial Statement Date: ,
                    
          
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
                    
                    
                    
     1. Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(a)
     1. Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(b)
     2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
     3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
 
     
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.]
     
[the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
     4. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedule 2
     the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of , .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
                    
          
 
For the Quarter/Year ended ("")
                    
                    
Statement Date
Section 7.06  Ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization.
 
EXHIBIT E
     This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between Assignor identified in item 1 below ("") and Assignee identified in below (""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
[the][each]
2
[the][each, an]
Assignor
[the][each]
item 2
[the][each, an]
Assignee
[It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
3
hereunder are several and not joint.]
4
Credit Agreement
     For an agreed consideration, Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to , and Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from , subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of rights and obligations in under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of under the respective facilities identified below and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned by Assignor to Assignee pursuant to above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to and above being referred to herein collectively as ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by Assignor.
[the][each]
[the Assignee][the respective Assignees]
[the][each]
[the Assignor][the respective Assignors]
[the Assignor's][the respective Assignors']
[its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders]
[the Assignor][the respective Assignors]
[
][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)]
[the][any]
[the][any]
clause (i)
clauses (i)
(ii)
[the][an]
Assigned Interest
[the][any]
[the][any]
 
 
Effective Date: , 20 [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                    
          
 
 
     The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
          1. .
Representations and Warranties
          1.1. . Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of Assigned Interest, (ii) Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
[The][Each]
[the][the relevant]
[the][such]
          1.2. . Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under , and of the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type presented by Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase Assigned Interest, (vi) it has independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it
Assignee
[The][Each]
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
[the][the relevant]
[the][such]
[the][such]
Section 6.01
[the][such]
[the][such]
[the][such]
[the][any]
 
shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
          2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
[the][each]
[the][the relevant]
[the][relevant]
          3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT F-1
 
EXHIBIT F-2

 
Exhibit 10.3
Published CUSIP Number: XXXXXXXXX
 
 
 
 
 
 
     (this "") is entered into as of November 16, 2007, among , a New Jersey corporation (the ""), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the "" and individually, a ""), and as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
THIS FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
VIRGINIA HOLDCO, INC.
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.,
     The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a revolving credit facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
     In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
     . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
1.01 Defined Terms
     "" means a fixed rate of interest expressed in multiples of 1/100th of one basis point.
Absolute Rate
     "" means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate determined with reference to an Absolute Rate.
Absolute Rate Loan
     "" means the acquisition by the Borrower of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Target and its Subsidiaries as described in the Acquisition Agreement.
Acquisition
     "" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of February 19, 2007, by and among the Borrower, the Target, VMC, Virginia Merger Sub, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, and Fresno Merger Sub, Inc., a Florida corporation, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 9, 2007 and as further amended from time to time.
Acquisition Agreement
     "" means, collectively, the Acquisition Agreement and all other material agreements executed in connection with the Acquisition, as amended from time to time.
Acquisition Documents
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
     "" means the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agent's Office
Schedule 10.02
     "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
     "" means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
     "" means the Commitments of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Commitments
     "" has the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Agreement
     "" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the percentage (carried out to the ninth decimal place) of the Aggregate Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment at such time. If the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to or if the Aggregate Commitments have expired, then the Applicable Percentage of each Lender shall be determined based on the Applicable Percentage of such Lender most recently in effect, giving effect to any subsequent assignments. The initial Applicable Percentage of each Lender is set forth opposite the name of such Lender on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable.
Applicable Percentage
Section 8.02
Schedule 2.01
     "" means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
     "" means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moody's (collectively, the "") of the Borrower's non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt; that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies differ by one level, then the Pricing Level for the higher of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest); (b) if there is a split in Debt Ratings of more than one level, then the Pricing Level that is one level lower than the Pricing Level of the higher Debt Rating shall apply; and (c) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level 5 shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the publicly announced Debt Rating in effect on the Closing Date. Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement or publication thereof by S&P or Moody's,
 
respectively, or, in the absence of such announcement or publication, on the effective date of such changed Debt Rating, and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
     "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
     "" means each of Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, each in its capacity as a joint lead arranger and joint bookrunner.
Arrangers
     "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
     "" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit F
     "" means the period from and including the Closing Date to the earliest of (a) the Maturity Date, (b) the date of termination of the Aggregate Commitments pursuant to , and (c) the date of termination of the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and of the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions pursuant to .
Availability Period
Section 2.07
Section 8.02
     "" means Bank of America, N.A. and its successors.
Bank of America
     "" means for any day a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate 1/2 of 1% and (b) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate". The "prime rate" is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
plus
     "" means a Committed Loan that is a Base Rate Loan.
Base Rate Committed Loan
     "" means a Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Bid Loans of the same Type from each of the Lenders whose offer to make one or more Bid Loans as part of such borrowing has been accepted under the auction bidding procedures described in .
Bid Borrowing
Section 2.03
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Bid Loan
Section 2.03(a)
     "" means, in respect of any Bid Loan, the Lender making such Bid Loan to the Borrower.
Bid Loan Lender
 
     "" means an amount equal to $200,000,000. The Bid Loan Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Bid Loan Sublimit
     "" means a written request for one or more Bid Loans substantially in the form of .
Bid Request
Exhibit B-1
     "" means Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, to be re-named "Vulcan Materials Company" on or about the Closing Date.
Borrower
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
     "" means a Committed Borrowing, a Bid Borrowing or a Swing Line Borrowing, as the context may require.
Borrowing
     "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the State of North Carolina and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
     "" means any nonredeemable capital stock of the Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary (to the extent issued to a Person other than the Borrower), whether common or preferred.
Capital Stock
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Cash Collateralize
Section 2.04(g)
     "" means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
     "" means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     "" means, as to each Lender, its obligation to (a) make Committed Loans to the Borrower pursuant to , (b) purchase participations in L/C Obligations, and (c) purchase participations in Swing Line Loans, in an aggregate principal amount at any one time outstanding not to exceed the amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender becomes a party hereto, as applicable, as such amount may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with this Agreement. The aggregate amount of the Commitments on the Closing Date is $1,500,000,000.
Commitment
Section 2.01
Schedule 2.01
     "" means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Committed Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to .
Committed Borrowing
Section 2.01
 
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Committed Loan
Section 2.01
     "" means a notice of (a) a Committed Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Committed Loan Notice
Section 2.02(a)
Exhibit A
     "" means a written offer by a Lender to make one or more Bid Loans, substantially in the form of , duly completed and signed by a Lender.
Competitive Bid
Exhibit B-2
     "" means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit E
     "" means at any date all obligations for indebtedness for borrowed money shown on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date (or would be if a balance sheet were prepared on such date); that indebtedness for borrowed money of any Partially Owned Subsidiary which is a Consolidated Subsidiary shall be equal to the Guaranteed Amount, if any, of such indebtedness.
Consolidated Debt
provided
     "" means at any date any Subsidiary or other entity the accounts of which, in accordance with GAAP, are consolidated with those of any Person in its consolidated financial statements as of such date.
Consolidated Subsidiary
     "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
     "" means all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Controlled Group
     "" means each of the following: (a) a Borrowing and (b) an L/C Credit Extension.
Credit Extension
     "" has the meaning specified in the definition of "Applicable Rate".
Debt Rating
     "" means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
     "" means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
     "" means (a) when used with respect to Obligations other than Letter of Credit Fees, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate (ii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate
Default Rate
plus
provided
however
 
equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Loan 2% per annum, and (b) when used with respect to Letter of Credit Fees, a rate equal to the Applicable Rate 2% per annum.
plus
plus
     "" means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Committed Loans, participations in L/C Obligations or participations in Swing Line Loans required to be funded by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date required to be funded by it hereunder unless such failure has been cured, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
     "" and "" mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
     "" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
     "" means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under , and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
     "" means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
     "" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
     "" means (a) any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived, with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under
ERISA Event
 
Section 4007 of ERISA or contributions to a Pension Plan in the ordinary course, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
     "" means the margin above or below the Eurodollar Rate to be added to or subtracted from the Eurodollar Rate, which margin shall be expressed in multiples of 1/100th of one basis point.
Eurodollar Bid Margin
     "" means a Bid Loan that bears interest at a rate based upon the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan
     "" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
     Where,
     "" means, for such Interest Period, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in immediately available funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank Eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
     "" means a Committed Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan
     "" means a Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan or a Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
     "" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
 
Percentage. The LIBOR Daily Floating Rate for each outstanding LIBOR Floating Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
     "" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
     "" means the Existing Vulcan Credit Facilities and the Existing Target Credit Facility.
Existing Credit Facilities
     "" means the letters of credit described on .
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 1.01
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of May 27, 2004 among the Target, material domestic subsidiaries from time to time parties thereto, lenders parties thereto, and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, as amended.
Existing Target Credit Facility
     "" means the credit facility provided under the Existing Vulcan 364-Day Credit Agreement and the Existing Vulcan Five-Year Credit Agreement, respectively.
Existing Vulcan Credit Facilities
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006 by and among VMC, the lenders party thereto from time to time, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006 and Amendment No. 2 to Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2007.
Existing Vulcan Five-Year Credit Agreement
     "" means that certain Credit Agreement dated as of September 15, 2006 among VMC, the lenders party thereto from time to time, and Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent, as amended by Amendment No. 1 to Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 2007.
Existing Vulcan 364-Day Credit Agreement
 
     "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
     "" means, collectively, (a) the letter agreement, dated May 29, 2007, among the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and (b) the letter agreement, dated May 29, 2007, among the Borrower, Banc of America Securities LLC and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC.
Fee Letter
     "" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
     "" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
     "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
     "" means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
     "" by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (a) to secure, purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods,
Guarantee
 
securities or services, to provide collateral security, to take-or-pay, or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (b) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part); that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The term "Guarantee" used as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
provided
     "" means, with respect to the Indebtedness of another Person, the aggregate amount for which the Borrower is liable (whether by Guarantee or as a general partner or otherwise, but excluding any amounts with respect to which the Borrower is expressly exculpated).
Guaranteed Amount
     "" of any Person means at any date, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, (d) the capitalized amount of all obligations of such Person as lessee under capital leases (excluding all Synthetic Lease Obligations) that are required to be accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, (e) all obligations of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts payable under a banker's acceptance, (f) all obligations (contingent or otherwise) of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts paid or to be paid under a drawn letter of credit or similar instrument, (g) all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by such Person, and (h) all Indebtedness of others Guaranteed by such Person.
Indebtedness
     "" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Information
Section 10.07
     "" means, (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates; (b) as to any Base Rate Loan (including a Swing Line Loan), the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December and the Maturity Date, and (c) as to any LIBOR Floating Rate Loan, the first Business Day of each month and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
     "" means (a) as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or (in the case of any Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan) converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Committed Loan Notice or Bid Request, as the case may be; and (b) as to each Absolute Rate Loan, a period of not less than seven days and not more than 360 days as selected by the Borrower in its Bid Request; that:
Interest Period
provided
 
     (a) any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
     (b) any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
     (c) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
     "" means, with respect to the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate, the first day of each month; , , that if such date is not a Business Day, then the "Interest Rate Change Date" shall be the next succeeding Business Day.
Interest Rate Change Date
provided
however
     "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
     "" means with respect to any Letter of Credit, the Letter of Credit Application, and any other document, agreement and instrument entered into by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower (or any Subsidiary) or in favor of the L/C Issuer and relating to such Letter of Credit.
Issuer Documents
     "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
     "" means, with respect to each Lender, such Lender's funding of its participation in any L/C Borrowing in accordance with its Applicable Percentage.
L/C Advance
     "" means an extension of credit resulting from a drawing under any Letter of Credit which has not been reimbursed on the date required to be reimbursed herein or refinanced as a Committed Borrowing.
L/C Borrowing
     "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the issuance thereof or extension of the expiry date thereof, or the increase of the amount thereof.
L/C Credit Extension
     "" means, (a) with respect to any Letter of Credit, each of Bank of America and each other Lender that agrees or is otherwise obligated to issue such Letter of Credit from time to time, whether pursuant to , , , or otherwise, and (b) with respect to any Existing Letter of Credit issued pursuant to the Existing Target Credit Facility, Wachovia Bank, National Association or Bank of America, N.A., as
L/C Issuer
Section 2.04(b)
Section 2.04(l)
Section 9.06
Section 10.06
 
applicable, each in its capacity as issuer of Existing Letters of Credit under this Credit Agreement; that, at any one time there shall not be more than three L/C Issuers. At any time there is more than one L/C Issuer, all singular references to the L/C Issuer shall mean any L/C Issuer, either L/C Issuer, each L/C Issuer, the L/C Issuer that has issued the applicable Letter of Credit, or all L/C Issuers, as the context may require.
provided
     "" means, as at any date of determination, the aggregate amount available to be drawn under all outstanding Letters of Credit the aggregate of all Unreimbursed Amounts, including all L/C Borrowings. For purposes of computing the amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
L/C Obligations
plus
Section 1.06
     "" has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto and, as the context requires, includes the Swing Line Lender.
Lender
     "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lender's Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
     "" means any standby letter of credit issued hereunder and shall include the Existing Letters of Credit.
Letter of Credit
     "" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the L/C Issuer.
Letter of Credit Application
     "" means the day that is seven days prior to the Maturity Date then in effect (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Letter of Credit Expiration Date
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.04(i)
     "" means an amount equal to $250,000,000. The Letter of Credit Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Letter of Credit Sublimit
     "" means a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
LIBOR Daily Floating Rate
     Where,
     "" means, for all Loans, on any day any such Loan is outstanding, the fluctuating rate of interest (rounded upwards, as necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing
LIBOR Daily Floating Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
 
quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two (2) Business Days prior to the most recent Interest Rate Change Date, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on such Interest Rate Change Date) with a term of one month, as adjusted from time to time in the Administrative Agent's sole discretion for changes in deposit insurance requirements and other regulatory costs. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBOR Daily Floating Base Rate" shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Dollar denominated Loans outstanding with a term equivalent to one month would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time), on each day any such Loan is outstanding.
     "" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate.
LIBOR Floating Rate Loan
     "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or other security interest or encumbrance (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any capital lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
     "" means an extension of credit by a Lender to the Borrower under in the form of a Committed Loan, a Bid Loan or a Swing Line Loan.
Loan
Article II
     "" means this Agreement, each Note, each Issuer Document and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
     "" means (a) a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties or financial condition of the Borrower, VMC, the Target and their respective Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Document; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of any Loan Document.
Material Adverse Effect
     "" means the later of (a) November 16, 2012 and (b) if maturity is extended pursuant to , November 16, 2013; , , that, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
Section 2.16
provided
however
     "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moody's
     "" means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
     "" means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing Loans made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit D
 
     "" means all advances to, and debts, liabilities and other monetary obligations of, the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to any Loan or Letter of Credit, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
     "" means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
     "" means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document. "Other Taxes" shall not include any Taxes imposed on (or measured by reference to) gross income, net income, or gain.
Other Taxes
     "" means (a) with respect to Committed Loans, Bid Loans and Swing Line Loans on any date, the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof after giving effect to any borrowings and prepayments or repayments of Committed Loans, Bid Loans and Swing Line Loans, as the case may be, occurring on such date; and (b) with respect to any L/C Obligations on any date, the amount of such L/C Obligations on such date after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension occurring on such date and any other changes in the aggregate amount of the L/C Obligations as of such date, including as a result of any reimbursements by the Borrower of Unreimbursed Amounts.
Outstanding Amount
     "" means a Subsidiary that is not a Wholly Owned Subsidiary.
Partially Owned Subsidiary
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
     "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
     "" means any "employee pension benefit plan" (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of
Pension Plan
 
a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
     "" means:
Permitted Encumbrances
     (a) Liens imposed by law or any Governmental Authority for taxes, assessments or charges that are not yet due or are being contested;
     (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or where the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
     (c) pledges and deposits made in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
     (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
     (e) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default; and
     (f) easements, zoning restrictions, minor title imperfections, restrictions on use, rights of way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries;
that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
     "" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
     "" means at any time an employee pension benefit plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code and is either (a) maintained by a member of the Controlled Group for employees of any member of the Controlled Group or (b) maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or any other arrangement under which more than one employer makes contributions and to which a member of the Controlled Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions.
Plan
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
     "" means all real property owned, leased or otherwise used or occupied by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, wherever located.
Properties
 
     "" means all rights of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries to payment, whether constituting an account, chattel paper, instrument, general intangible or otherwise, arising from the sale of goods or services (including rights under bill and hold arrangements) by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (and including the right to payment of any interest or finance charges and other obligations with respect thereto).
Receivables
     "" means any transaction or series of transactions that may be entered into by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries pursuant to which the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to the Receivables Subsidiary and, in the case of a transfer by the Receivables Subsidiary, any other Person, or may grant a security interest in, any Receivables (whether now existing or arising in the future); that:
Receivables Securitization
provided
     (a) no portion of the indebtedness or any other obligations (contingent or otherwise) of a Receivables Subsidiary (i) is guaranteed by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary and excluding guarantees of obligations pursuant to customary securitization undertakings), (ii) is recourse to or obligates the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) for payment other than pursuant to customary securitization undertakings or (iii) subjects any property or asset of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary), directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction of obligations incurred in such transactions, other than pursuant to customary securitization undertakings;
     (b) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) do not have any obligation to maintain or preserve the financial condition of the Receivables Subsidiary or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results; and
     (c) fair value has been received.
     "" means a special purpose corporation that is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower, whose primary business shall be the acquisition of Receivables pursuant to the Receivables Securitization and those activities incidental to the Receivables Securitization.
Receivables Subsidiary
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
     "" has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed in the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
     "" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
     "" means (a) with respect to a Borrowing, conversion or continuation of Committed Loans, a Committed Loan Notice, (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, a Bid Request, (c) with respect to an L/C Credit Extension, a Letter of Credit Application, and (d) with respect to a Swing Line Loan, a Swing Line Loan Notice.
Request for Credit Extension
 
     "" means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitments or, if the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and the obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions have been terminated pursuant to , Lenders holding in the aggregate more than 50% of the Total Outstandings (with the aggregate amount of each Lender's risk participation and funded participation in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans being deemed "held" by such Lender for purposes of this definition); that the Commitment of, and the portion of the Total Outstandings held or deemed held by, any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
Section 8.02
provided
     "" means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of the Borrower and, solely for purposes of notices given pursuant to , any other officer or employee of the Borrower so designated by any of the foregoing officers in a notice to the Administrative Agent. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
Article II
     "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
     "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
     "" means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC, all as amended.
Securities Laws
     "" means, at any time, the shareholders' equity of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as set forth or reflected on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders' Equity
     "" means any Subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC.
Significant Subsidiary
     "" of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a "Subsidiary" or to "Subsidiaries" shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
     "" means all obligations of such Person with respect to interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements or other hedging arrangements
SWAP Obligations
 
(valued for any SWAP Obligation at any date, as the net payments that such Person would have to make in the event of an early termination of the applicable agreement on such date).
     "" means the revolving credit facility made available by the Swing Line Lender pursuant to .
Swing Line
Section 2.05
     "" means a borrowing of a Swing Line Loan pursuant to .
Swing Line Borrowing
Section 2.05
     "" means Bank of America in its capacity as provider of Swing Line Loans, or any successor swing line lender hereunder.
Swing Line Lender
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Swing Line Loan
Section 2.05(a)
     "" means a notice of a Swing Line Borrowing pursuant to , which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Swing Line Loan Notice
Section 2.05(b)
Exhibit C
     "" means an amount equal to the lesser of (a) $25,000,000 and (b) the Aggregate Commitments. The Swing Line Sublimit is part of, and not in addition to, the Aggregate Commitments.
Swing Line Sublimit
     "" means any operating lease under GAAP for which the lessee retains federal tax ownership of the property leased.
Synthetic Lease
     "" means any and all liabilities, indebtedness, rent, and all other obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary owed under any Synthetic Lease.
Synthetic Lease Obligations
     "" means Florida Rock Industries, Inc., a Florida corporation.
Target
     "" means the merger of Fresno Merger Sub, Inc., a Florida corporation, with and into the Target, with the Target as the surviving corporation of such merger.
Target Merger
     "" means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings or like charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
     "" means that certain 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007, by and among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto.
364-Day Working Capital Credit Agreement
     "" means the sum of (a) Shareholders' Equity (b) Consolidated Debt.
Total Capitalization
plus
     "" means on any date the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Loans and all L/C Obligations.
Total Outstandings
 
     "" means (a) the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the borrowings hereunder and (b) the consummation of the Acquisition, the Target Merger, the Vulcan Merger and the other transactions to occur pursuant to the Acquisition Documents.
Transactions
     "" means (a) with respect to a Committed Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan, a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan, and (b) with respect to a Bid Loan, its character as an Absolute Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan.
Type
     "" and "" mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
     "" has the meaning specified in .
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.04(c)(i)
     "" means Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation and the surviving entity of the VMC Merger, to be renamed "VMC Corp." on or about the Closing Date.
VMC
     "" means the merger of Virginia Merger Sub, Inc., a New Jersey corporation, with and into Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation, with Vulcan Materials Company as the surviving corporation of such merger.
Vulcan Merger
     "" means any Subsidiary all of the shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors' qualifying shares) are at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Borrower.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
     "" mean, collectively, (a) the 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement dated as of November 16, 2007, by and among the Borrower, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, (b) the 364-Day Working Capital Credit Agreement, and (c) any revolving credit or comparable credit agreement dated on or after the Closing Date by and among the Target and any financial institutions thereto.
Working Capital Credit Facilities
     . With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
1.02 Other Interpretive Provisions
     (a) The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "", "" and "" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "". Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (iii) the words "", "" and "", and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law
include
includes
including
will
shall
herein
hereof
hereunder
 
shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words "" and "" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
asset
property
     (b) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ""; the words "" and "" each mean ""; and the word "" means "".
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
     (c) Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
     . (a) . All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the applicable period, as in effect from time to time, as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
1.03 Accounting Terms
Generally
except
     (a) . If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.
Changes in GAAP
provided
that
     . Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
1.04 Rounding
     . Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
1.05 Times of Day
     . Unless otherwise specified herein, the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to be the stated amount of such Letter of Credit in effect at such time (including giving effect to any further increases or decreases thereof); , , that with respect to any Letter of Credit that, by its terms or the terms of any
1.06 Letter of Credit Amounts
provided
however
 
Issuer Document related thereto, provides for one or more automatic increases in the stated amount thereof, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be the maximum stated amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all such increases, whether or not such maximum stated amount is in effect at such time.
     . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender severally agrees to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time, on any Business Day during the Availability Period, in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Committed Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment. Within the limits of each Lender's Commitment, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Committed Loans may be Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, as further provided herein.
2.01 Committed Loans
Committed Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
Section 2.01
Section 2.06
Section 2.01
     .
2.02 Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Committed Loans
     (a) Each Committed Borrowing, each conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Borrowing of Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Committed Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Except as provided in and , each Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Committed Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Committed Borrowing, a conversion of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the Borrowing, conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Committed Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Committed Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Committed Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Committed Loan in a Committed Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails
Section 2.02(a)
Sections 2.04(c)
2.05(c)
 
to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Committed Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a Borrowing of, conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Committed Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
     (b) Following receipt of a Committed Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Committed Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Committed Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Committed Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in (and, if such Borrowing is the initial Credit Extension, ), the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of Bank of America with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower; , , that if, on the date the Committed Loan Notice with respect to such Borrowing is given by the Borrower, there are L/C Borrowings outstanding, then the proceeds of such Borrowing, , shall be applied to the payment in full of any such L/C Borrowings, and , shall be made available to the Borrower as provided above.
Section 4.02
Section 4.01
provided
however
first
second
     (c) Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
     (d) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in Bank of America's prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
     (e) After giving effect to all Committed Borrowings, all conversions of Committed Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Committed Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Committed Loans.
     .
2.03 Bid Loans
     (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees that the Borrower may from time to time request the Lenders to submit offers to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower prior to the Maturity Date pursuant to this
General
Bid Loan
 
; , , that after giving effect to any Bid Borrowing, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of all Bid Loans shall not exceed the Bid Loan Sublimit. There shall not be more than ten different Interest Periods in effect with respect to Bid Loans at any time.
Section 2.03
provided
however
     (b) . The Borrower may request the submission of Competitive Bids by delivering a Bid Request to the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) one Business Day prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) four Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans. Each Bid Request shall specify (i) the requested date of the Bid Borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Bid Loans requested (which must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof), (iii) the Type of Bid Loans requested, and (iv) the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto, and shall be signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. No Bid Request shall contain a request for (i) more than one Type of Bid Loan or (ii) Bid Loans having more than three different Interest Periods. Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise agrees in its sole and absolute discretion, the Borrower may not submit a Bid Request if it has submitted another Bid Request within the prior five Business Days.
Requesting Competitive Bids
     (c) .
Submitting Competitive Bids
     (i) The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of each Bid Request received by it from the Borrower and the contents of such Bid Request.
     (ii) Each Lender may (but shall have no obligation to) submit a Competitive Bid containing an offer to make one or more Bid Loans in response to such Bid Request. Such Competitive Bid must be delivered to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:30 a.m. (A) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (B) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans; , , that any Competitive Bid submitted by Bank of America in its capacity as a Lender in response to any Bid Request must be submitted to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:15 a.m. on the date on which Competitive Bids are required to be delivered by the other Lenders in response to such Bid Request. Each Competitive Bid shall specify (A) the proposed date of the Bid Borrowing; (B) the principal amount of each Bid Loan for which such Competitive Bid is being made, which principal amount (x) may be equal to, greater than or less than the Commitment of the bidding Lender, (y) must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof, and (z) may not exceed the principal amount of Bid Loans for which Competitive Bids were requested; (C) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, the Absolute Rate offered for each such Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; (D) if the proposed Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Eurodollar Bid Margin with respect to each such Eurodollar Margin Bid Loan and the Interest Period applicable thereto; and (E) the identity of the bidding Lender.
provided
however
     (iii) Any Competitive Bid shall be disregarded if it (A) is received after the applicable time specified in above, (B) is not substantially in the form of a
clause (ii)
 
Competitive Bid as specified herein, (C) contains qualifying, conditional or similar language, (D) proposes terms other than or in addition to those set forth in the applicable Bid Request, or (E) is otherwise not responsive to such Bid Request. Any Lender may correct a Competitive Bid containing a manifest error by submitting a corrected Competitive Bid (identified as such) not later than the applicable time required for submission of Competitive Bids. Any such submission of a corrected Competitive Bid shall constitute a revocation of the Competitive Bid that contained the manifest error. The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, notify any Lender of any manifest error it detects in such Lender's Competitive Bid.
     (iv) Subject only to the provisions of , and and above, each Competitive Bid shall be irrevocable.
Sections 3.02
3.03
4.02
clause (iii)
     (d) . Not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, or (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of the identity of each Lender that has submitted a Competitive Bid that complies with and of the terms of the offers contained in each such Competitive Bid.
Notice to Borrower of Competitive Bids
Section 2.03(c)
     (e) . Not later than 11:30 a.m. (i) on the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Absolute Rate Loans, and (ii) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any Bid Borrowing that is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Bid Loans, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of its acceptance or rejection of the offers notified to it pursuant to . The Borrower shall be under no obligation to accept any Competitive Bid and may choose to reject all Competitive Bids. In the case of acceptance, such notice shall specify the aggregate principal amount of Competitive Bids for each Interest Period that is accepted. The Borrower may accept any Competitive Bid in whole or in part; that:
Acceptance of Competitive Bids
Section 2.03(d)
provided
     (i) the aggregate principal amount of each Bid Borrowing may not exceed the applicable amount set forth in the related Bid Request;
     (ii) the principal amount of each Bid Loan must be $10,000,000 or a whole multiple of $5,000,000 in excess thereof;
     (iii) the acceptance of offers may be made only on the basis of ascending Absolute Rates or Eurodollar Bid Margins within each Interest Period; and
     (iv) the Borrower may not accept any offer that is described in or that otherwise fails to comply with the requirements hereof.
Section 2.03(c)(iii)
     (f) . If two or more Lenders have submitted Competitive Bids at the same Absolute Rate or Eurodollar Bid Margin, as the case may be, for the same Interest Period, and the result of accepting all of such Competitive Bids in whole (together with any other Competitive Bids at lower Absolute Rates or Eurodollar Bid Margins, as the case may be, accepted for such Interest Period in conformity with the requirements of ) would be to cause the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the applicable Bid Borrowing to
Procedure for Identical Bids
Section 2.03(e)(iii)
 
exceed the amount specified therefor in the related Bid Request, then, unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and such Lenders, such Competitive Bids shall be accepted as nearly as possible in proportion to the amount offered by each such Lender in respect of such Interest Period, with such accepted amounts being rounded to the nearest whole multiple of $1,000,000.
     (g) . The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender having submitted a Competitive Bid whether or not its offer has been accepted and, if its offer has been accepted, of the amount of the Bid Loan or Bid Loans to be made by it on the date of the applicable Bid Borrowing. Any Competitive Bid or portion thereof that is not accepted by the Borrower by the applicable time specified in shall be deemed rejected.
Notice to Lenders of Acceptance or Rejection of Bids
Section 2.03(e)
     (h) . If any Bid Borrowing is to consist of Eurodollar Margin Loans, the Administrative Agent shall determine the Eurodollar Rate for the relevant Interest Period, and promptly after making such determination, shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that will be participating in such Bid Borrowing of such Eurodollar Rate.
Notice of Eurodollar Rate
     (i) . Each Lender that has received notice pursuant to that all or a portion of its Competitive Bid has been accepted by the Borrower shall make the amount of its Bid Loan(s) available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 1:00 p.m. on the date of the requested Bid Borrowing. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in , the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent.
Funding of Bid Loans
Section 2.03(g)
Section 4.02
     (j) . After each Competitive Bid auction pursuant to this , the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender that submitted a Competitive Bid in such auction of the ranges of bids submitted (without the bidder's name) and accepted for each Bid Loan and the aggregate amount of each Bid Borrowing.
Notice of Range of Bids
Section 2.03
     .
2.04 Letters of Credit
     (a) .
The Letter of Credit Commitment
     (i) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, (A) the L/C Issuer agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the Lenders set forth in this , (1) from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Closing Date until the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, and to amend or extend Letters of Credit previously issued by it, in accordance with below, and (2) to honor drawings under the Letters of Credit; and (B) the Lenders severally agree to participate in Letters of Credit issued for the account of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries and any drawings thereunder; that after giving effect to any L/C Credit Extension with respect to any Letter of Credit, (x) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, (y) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations,
Section 2.04
subsection (b)
provided
plus
plus
 
such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and (z) the Outstanding Amount of the L/C Obligations shall not exceed the Letter of Credit Sublimit. Each request by the Borrower for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be a representation by the Borrower that the L/C Credit Extension so requested complies with the conditions set forth in the proviso to the preceding sentence. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower's ability to obtain Letters of Credit shall be fully revolving, and accordingly the Borrower may, during the foregoing period, obtain Letters of Credit to replace Letters of Credit that have expired or that have been drawn upon and reimbursed. All Existing Letters of Credit shall be deemed to have been issued pursuant hereto, and from and after the Closing Date shall be subject to and governed by the terms and conditions hereof.
     (ii) The L/C Issuer shall not issue any Letter of Credit if:
     (A) subject to , the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur more than twelve months after the date of issuance, unless the Required Lenders have approved such expiry date;
Section 2.04(b)(iii)
     (B) the expiry date of such requested Letter of Credit would occur after the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, unless all the Lenders have approved such expiry date; or
     (C) such Letter of Credit is to be denominated in a currency other than Dollars.
     (iii) The L/C Issuer shall not be under any obligation to issue any Letter of Credit if:
     (A) any order, judgment or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the L/C Issuer from issuing such Letter of Credit, or any Law applicable to the L/C Issuer or any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the L/C Issuer shall prohibit, or request that the L/C Issuer refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the L/C Issuer is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the L/C Issuer any unreimbursed loss, cost or expense which was not applicable on the Closing Date and which the L/C Issuer in good faith deems material to it;
     (B) the issuance of such Letter of Credit would violate one or more policies of the L/C Issuer applicable to letters of credit generally;
     (C) except as otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer, such Letter of Credit is in an initial stated amount less than $100,000; or
 
     (D) a default of any Lender's obligations to fund under exists or any Lender is at such time a Defaulting Lender hereunder, unless the L/C Issuer has entered into satisfactory arrangements with the Borrower or such Lender to eliminate the L/C Issuer's risk with respect to such Lender.
Section 2.04(c)
     (iv) The L/C Issuer shall not amend any Letter of Credit if the L/C Issuer would not be permitted at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof.
     (v) The L/C Issuer shall be under no obligation to amend any Letter of Credit if (A) the L/C Issuer would have no obligation at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its amended form under the terms hereof, or (B) the beneficiary of such Letter of Credit does not accept the proposed amendment to such Letter of Credit.
     (vi) The L/C Issuer shall act on behalf of the Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the documents associated therewith, and the L/C Issuer shall have all of the benefits and immunities (A) provided to the Administrative Agent in with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the L/C Issuer in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and Issuer Documents pertaining to such Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in included the L/C Issuer with respect to such acts or omissions, and (B) as additionally provided herein with respect to the L/C Issuer.
Article IX
Article IX
     (b) .
Procedures for Issuance and Amendment of Letters of Credit; Auto-Extension Letters of Credit
     (i) Each Letter of Credit shall be issued or amended, as the case may be, upon the request of the Borrower delivered to the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) in the form of a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Such Letter of Credit Application must be received by the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon at least two Business Days (or such later date and time as the Administrative Agent and the L/C Issuer may agree in a particular instance in their sole discretion) prior to the proposed issuance date or date of amendment, as the case may be. In the case of a request for an initial issuance of a Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer: (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; and (G) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the L/C Issuer (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the L/C Issuer may require. Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such
 
requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any Issuer Documents, as the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent may require.
     (ii) Promptly after receipt of any Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has received a copy of such Letter of Credit Application from the Borrower and, if not, the L/C Issuer will provide the Administrative Agent with a copy thereof. Unless the L/C Issuer has received written notice from any Lender, the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, at least one Business Day prior to the requested date of issuance or amendment of the applicable Letter of Credit, that one or more applicable conditions contained in shall not then be satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the L/C Issuer shall, on the requested date, issue a Letter of Credit for the account of the Borrower (or the applicable Subsidiary) or enter into the applicable amendment, as the case may be, in each case in accordance with the L/C Issuer's usual and customary business practices. Immediately upon the issuance of each Letter of Credit, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the L/C Issuer a risk participation in such Letter of Credit in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Letter of Credit.
Article IV
times
     (iii) If the Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer may, in its sole and absolute discretion, agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an ""); that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit the L/C Issuer to prevent any such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the "") in each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the L/C Issuer, the Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for any such extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date; , , that the L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) the L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of or of or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is five Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing the L/C Issuer not to permit such extension.
Auto-Extension Letter of Credit
provided
Non-Extension Notice Date
provided
however
clause (ii)
(iii)
Section 2.04(a)
Section 4.02
     (iv) Promptly after its delivery of any Letter of Credit or any amendment to a Letter of Credit to an advising bank with respect thereto or to the beneficiary thereof, the
 
L/C Issuer will also deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent a true and complete copy of such Letter of Credit or amendment.
     (c) .
Drawings and Reimbursements; Funding of Participations
     (i) Upon receipt from the beneficiary of any Letter of Credit of any notice of a drawing under such Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent thereof. Not later than 12:00 noon on the date of any payment by the L/C Issuer under a Letter of Credit (each such date, an ""), the Borrower shall reimburse the L/C Issuer through the Administrative Agent in an amount equal to the amount of such drawing; that, if the Borrower is not notified of a drawing under a Letter of Credit by 10:00 a.m. on the date of such drawing, then the Borrower shall instead be required to make such reimbursement on the Business Day following such drawing. If the Borrower fails to so reimburse the L/C Issuer by such time, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the Honor Date, the amount of the unreimbursed drawing (the ""), and the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. In such event, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans to be disbursed on the Honor Date in an amount equal to the Unreimbursed Amount, without regard to the minimum and multiples specified in for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the amount of the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in (other than the delivery of a Committed Loan Notice). Any notice given by the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent pursuant to this may be given by telephone if immediately confirmed in writing; that the lack of such an immediate confirmation shall not affect the conclusiveness or binding effect of such notice. No later than the fifth Business Day of each month, each L/C Issuer shall provide a written report to the Administrative Agent as to the stated amount of any Letters of Credit issued by such L/C Issuer during the preceding month, the dates and amounts of each draw under any outstanding Letters of Credit during such month and the dates and amounts of each reimbursement made by the Borrower during such month.
Honor Date
provided
Unreimbursed Amount
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.04(c)(i)
provided
     (ii) Each Lender shall upon any notice pursuant to make funds available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer at the Administrative Agent's Office in an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the Unreimbursed Amount not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in such notice by the Administrative Agent, whereupon, subject to the provisions of , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 2.04(c)(iii)
     (iii) With respect to any Unreimbursed Amount that is not fully refinanced by a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans because the conditions set forth in cannot be satisfied or for any other reason, the Borrower shall be deemed to have incurred from the L/C Issuer an L/C Borrowing in the amount of the Unreimbursed Amount that is not so refinanced, which L/C Borrowing shall be due and payable on demand (together with interest) and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. In such event, each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer
Section 4.02
 
pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of its participation in such L/C Borrowing and shall constitute an L/C Advance from such Lender in satisfaction of its participation obligation under this .
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
Section 2.04
     (iv) Until each Lender funds its Committed Loan or L/C Advance pursuant to this to reimburse the L/C Issuer for any amount drawn under any Letter of Credit, interest in respect of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such amount shall be solely for the account of the L/C Issuer.
Section 2.04(c)
     (v) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or L/C Advances to reimburse the L/C Issuer for amounts drawn under Letters of Credit, as contemplated by this , shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the L/C Issuer, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever; (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in (other than delivery by the Borrower of a Committed Loan Notice). No such making of an L/C Advance shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for the amount of any payment made by the L/C Issuer under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.04(c)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 4.02
     (vi) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the L/C Issuer shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the L/C Issuer at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the L/C Issuer in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the L/C Issuer in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or L/C Advance in respect of the relevant L/C Borrowing, as the case may be. A certificate of the L/C Issuer submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.04(c)(ii)
plus
clause (vi)
     (d) .
Repayment of Participations
     (i) At any time after the L/C Issuer has made a payment under any Letter of Credit and has received from any Lender such Lender's L/C Advance in respect of such payment in accordance with , if the Administrative Agent receives for the account of the L/C Issuer any payment in respect of the related Unreimbursed Amount or interest thereon (whether directly from the Borrower or otherwise, including proceeds of Cash Collateral applied thereto by the Administrative Agent), the Administrative Agent
Section 2.04(c)
 
will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Administrative Agent.
     (ii) If any payment received by the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer pursuant to is required to be returned under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the L/C Issuer in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned by such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 2.04(c)(i)
Section 10.05
plus
     (e) . The obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the L/C Issuer for each drawing under each Letter of Credit and to repay each L/C Borrowing shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be paid strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under all circumstances (but subject to ), including the following:
Obligations Absolute
Section 2.04(f)
     (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of such Letter of Credit, this Agreement, or any other Loan Document;
     (ii) the existence of any claim, counterclaim, setoff, defense or other right that the Borrower or any Subsidiary may have at any time against any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit (or any Person for whom any such beneficiary or any such transferee may be acting), the L/C Issuer or any other Person, whether in connection with this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or by such Letter of Credit or any agreement or instrument relating thereto, or any unrelated transaction;
     (iii) any draft, demand, certificate or other document presented under such Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent, invalid or insufficient in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect; or any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under such Letter of Credit;
     (iv) any payment by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or certificate that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit; or any payment made by the L/C Issuer under such Letter of Credit to any Person purporting to be a trustee in bankruptcy, debtor-in-possession, assignee for the benefit of creditors, liquidator, receiver or other representative of or successor to any beneficiary or any transferee of such Letter of Credit, including any arising in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law; or
     (v) any other circumstance or happening whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, including any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, the Borrower or any Subsidiary.
     The Borrower shall promptly examine a copy of each Letter of Credit and each amendment thereto that is delivered to it and, in the event of any claim of noncompliance with
 
the Borrower's instructions or other irregularity, the Borrower will immediately notify the L/C Issuer. The Borrower shall be conclusively deemed to have waived any such claim against the L/C Issuer and its correspondents unless such notice is given as aforesaid.
     (f) . Each Lender and the Borrower agree that, in paying any drawing under a Letter of Credit, the L/C Issuer shall not have any responsibility to obtain any document (other than any sight draft, certificates and documents expressly required by the Letter of Credit) or to ascertain or inquire as to the validity or accuracy of any such document or the authority of the Person executing or delivering any such document. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable to any Lender for (i) any action taken or omitted in connection herewith at the request or with the approval of the Lenders or the Required Lenders, as applicable; (ii) any action taken or omitted in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct; or (iii) the due execution, effectiveness, validity or enforceability of any document or instrument related to any Letter of Credit or Issuer Document. As between the Borrower, on the one hand, and the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, on the other, the Borrower hereby assumes all risks of the acts or omissions of any beneficiary or transferee with respect to its use of any Letter of Credit; , , that this assumption is not intended to, and shall not, preclude the Borrower's pursuing such rights and remedies as it may have against the beneficiary or transferee at law or under any other agreement. None of the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent, any of their respective Related Parties nor any correspondent, participant or assignee of the L/C Issuer shall be liable or responsible for any of the matters described in through of ; , , that anything in such clauses to the contrary notwithstanding, the Borrower may have a claim against the L/C Issuer, and the L/C Issuer may be liable to the Borrower, to the extent, but only to the extent, of any direct, as opposed to consequential or exemplary, damages suffered by the Borrower which the Borrower proves were caused by the L/C Issuer's willful misconduct or gross negligence or the L/C Issuer's willful failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after the presentation to it by the beneficiary of a sight draft and certificate(s) strictly complying with the terms and conditions of a Letter of Credit. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the L/C Issuer may accept documents that appear on their face to be in order, without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, and the L/C Issuer shall not be responsible for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign a Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, which may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason.
Role of L/C Issuer
provided
however
clauses (i)
(v)
Section 2.04(e)
provided
however
     (g) . Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, (i) if the L/C Issuer has honored any full or partial drawing request under any Letter of Credit and such drawing has resulted in an L/C Borrowing, or (ii) if, as of the Letter of Credit Expiration Date, any L/C Obligation for any reason remains outstanding, the Borrower shall, in each case, on the next Business Day following the date on which the Borrower receives notice of such request, Cash Collateralize the then Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations. and set forth certain additional requirements to deliver Cash Collateral hereunder. For purposes of this , and , "" means to pledge and deposit with or deliver to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, as collateral for the L/C Obligations, cash or deposit account balances pursuant to documentation in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the L/C
Cash Collateral
Sections 2.06
8.02(c)
Section 2.04
Section 2.06
Section 8.02(c)
Cash Collateralize
 
Issuer (which documents are hereby consented to by the Lenders), or, with respect to above, to provide a back-to-back letter of credit issued by an institution, and in form, reasonably satisfactory to the L/C Issuer. Derivatives of such term have corresponding meanings. The Borrower hereby grants to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the L/C Issuer and the Lenders, a security interest in all such cash, deposit accounts and all balances therein and all proceeds of the foregoing. Cash Collateral shall be maintained in blocked, non-interest bearing deposit accounts at Bank of America.
clause (ii)
     (h) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the L/C Issuer and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued (including any such agreement applicable to an Existing Letter of Credit), the rules of the ISP shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP
     (i) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage a Letter of Credit fee (the "") for each Letter of Credit equal to the Applicable Rate the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . Letter of Credit Fees shall be (i) due and payable on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand and (ii) computed on a quarterly basis in arrears. If there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the daily amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, upon the request of the Required Lenders, while any Event of Default exists, all Letter of Credit Fees shall accrue at the Default Rate.
Letter of Credit Fees
Letter of Credit Fee
times
Section 1.06
     (j) . The Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account a fronting fee with respect to each Letter of Credit, at a rate per annum equal to 0.125% or such other rate as may be separately agreed to in writing between the Borrower and the applicable L/C Issuer, computed on the daily amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit and on a quarterly basis in arrears. Such fronting fee shall be due and payable on the tenth Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December in respect of the most recently-ended quarterly period (or portion thereof, in the case of the first payment), commencing with the first such date to occur after the issuance of such Letter of Credit, on the Letter of Credit Expiration Date and thereafter on demand. For purposes of computing the daily amount available to be drawn under any Letter of Credit, the amount of such Letter of Credit shall be determined in accordance with . In addition, the Borrower shall pay directly to the L/C Issuer for its own account the customary issuance, presentation, amendment and other processing fees, and other standard costs and charges, of the L/C Issuer relating to letters of credit as from time to time in effect. Such customary fees and standard costs and charges are due and payable on demand and are nonrefundable.
Fronting Fee and Documentary and Processing Charges Payable to L/C Issuer
Section 1.06
     (k) . In the event of any conflict between the terms hereof and the terms of any Issuer Document, the terms hereof shall control.
Conflict with Issuer Documents
 
     (l) . The Borrower may, at any time and from time to time, whether in connection with a resignation of an L/C Issuer pursuant to or below or otherwise, designate one or more additional Lenders to act as an L/C Issuer under the terms of this Agreement, with the consent of the Administrative Agent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned) and such Lender; that in no event shall there be more than three L/C Issuers at any time. Any Lender designated as an L/C Issuer pursuant to this shall be deemed (in addition to being a Lender) to be the L/C Issuer with respect to the Letters of Credit issued or to be issued by such Lender, and all references herein and in the other Loan Documents to the term "L/C Issuer" shall, with respect to such Letters of Credit, be deemed to refer to such Lender in its capacity as an L/C Issuer, as the context shall require.
L/C Issuers
Section 9.06
Section 10.06(h)
provided
Section 2.04(l)
     (m) . Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the L/C Issuer hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit. The Borrower hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries inures to the benefit of the Borrower, and that the Borrower's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Letters of Credit Issued for Subsidiaries
     .
2.05 Swing Line Loans
     (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swing Line Lender agrees, in reliance upon the agreements of the other Lenders set forth in this , to make loans (each such loan, a "") to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the Availability Period in an aggregate amount not to exceed at any time outstanding the amount of the Swing Line Sublimit, notwithstanding the fact that such Swing Line Loans, when aggregated with the Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of Committed Loans and L/C Obligations of the Lender acting as Swing Line Lender, may exceed the amount of such Lender's Commitment; , , that after giving effect to any Swing Line Loan, (i) the Total Outstandings shall not exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (ii) the aggregate Outstanding Amount of the Committed Loans of any Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all L/C Obligations, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the Outstanding Amount of all Swing Line Loans shall not exceed such Lender's Commitment, and , , that the Borrower shall not use the proceeds of any Swing Line Loan to refinance any outstanding Swing Line Loan. Within the foregoing limits, and subject to the other terms and conditions hereof, the Borrower may borrow under this , prepay under , and reborrow under this . Each Swing Line Loan shall be a Base Rate Loan. Immediately upon the making of a Swing Line Loan, each Lender shall be deemed to, and hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to, purchase from the Swing Line Lender a risk participation in such Swing Line Loan in an amount equal to the product of such Lender's Applicable Percentage the amount of such Swing Line Loan.
The Swing Line
Section 2.05
Swing Line Loan
provided
however
plus
plus
provided
further
Section 2.05
Section 2.06
Section 2.05
times
     (b) . Each Swing Line Borrowing shall be made upon the Borrower's irrevocable notice to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 2:00 p.m. on the requested borrowing date, and shall specify
Borrowing Procedures
 
(i) the amount to be borrowed, which shall be a minimum of $100,000, and (ii) the requested borrowing date, which shall be a Business Day. Each such telephonic notice must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent of a written Swing Line Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Promptly after receipt by the Swing Line Lender of any telephonic Swing Line Loan Notice, the Swing Line Lender will confirm with the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) that the Administrative Agent has also received such Swing Line Loan Notice and, if not, the Swing Line Lender will notify the Administrative Agent (by telephone or in writing) of the contents thereof. Unless the Swing Line Lender has received notice (by telephone or in writing) from the Administrative Agent (including at the request of any Lender) prior to 3:00 p.m. on the date of the proposed Swing Line Borrowing (A) directing the Swing Line Lender not to make such Swing Line Loan as a result of the limitations set forth in the proviso to the first sentence of , or (B) that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in is not then satisfied, then, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swing Line Lender will, not later than 4:00 p.m. on the borrowing date specified in such Swing Line Loan Notice, make the amount of its Swing Line Loan available to the Borrower.
Section 2.05(a)
Article IV
     (c) .
Refinancing of Swing Line Loans
     (i) The Swing Line Lender at any time in its sole and absolute discretion may request, on behalf of the Borrower (which hereby irrevocably authorizes the Swing Line Lender to so request on its behalf), that each Lender make a Base Rate Committed Loan in an amount equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the amount of Swing Line Loans then outstanding. Such request shall be made in writing (which written request shall be deemed to be a Committed Loan Notice for purposes hereof) and in accordance with the requirements of , without regard to the minimum and multiples specified therein for the principal amount of Base Rate Loans, but subject to the unutilized portion of the Aggregate Commitments and the conditions set forth in . The Swing Line Lender shall furnish the Borrower with a copy of the applicable Committed Loan Notice promptly after delivering such notice to the Administrative Agent. Each Lender shall make an amount equal to its Applicable Percentage of the amount specified in such Committed Loan Notice available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds for the account of the Swing Line Lender at the Administrative Agent's Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the day specified in such Committed Loan Notice, whereupon, subject to , each Lender that so makes funds available shall be deemed to have made a Base Rate Committed Loan to the Borrower in such amount. The Administrative Agent shall remit the funds so received to the Swing Line Lender.
Section 2.02
Section 4.02
Section 2.05(c)(ii)
     (ii) If for any reason any Swing Line Loan cannot be refinanced by such a Committed Borrowing in accordance with , the request for Base Rate Committed Loans submitted by the Swing Line Lender as set forth herein shall be deemed to be a request by the Swing Line Lender that each of the Lenders fund its risk participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan and each Lender's payment to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender pursuant to shall be deemed payment in respect of such participation.
Section 2.05(c)(i)
Section 2.05(c)(i)
 
     (iii) If any Lender fails to make available to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Swing Line Lender any amount required to be paid by such Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this by the time specified in , the Swing Line Lender shall be entitled to recover from such Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent), on demand, such amount with interest thereon for the period from the date such payment is required to the date on which such payment is immediately available to the Swing Line Lender at a rate per annum equal to the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Swing Line Lender in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, any administrative processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Swing Line Lender in connection with the foregoing. If such Lender pays such amount (with interest and fees as aforesaid), the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in the relevant Committed Borrowing or funded participation in the relevant Swing Line Loan, as the case may be. A certificate of the Swing Line Lender submitted to any Lender (through the Administrative Agent) with respect to any amounts owing under this shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
Section 2.05(c)
Section 2.05(c)(i)
plus
clause (iii)
     (iv) Each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans or to purchase and fund risk participations in Swing Line Loans pursuant to this shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance, including (A) any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which such Lender may have against the Swing Line Lender, the Borrower or any other Person for any reason whatsoever, (B) the occurrence or continuance of a Default, or (C) any other occurrence, event or condition, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing; , , that each Lender's obligation to make Committed Loans pursuant to this is subject to the conditions set forth in . No such funding of risk participations shall relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to repay Swing Line Loans, together with interest as provided herein.
Section 2.05(c)
provided
however
Section 2.05(c)
Section 4.02
     (d) .
Repayment of Participations
     (i) At any time after any Lender has purchased and funded a risk participation in a Swing Line Loan, if the Swing Line Lender receives any payment on account of such Swing Line Loan, the Swing Line Lender will distribute to such Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof in the same funds as those received by the Swing Line Lender.
     (ii) If any payment received by the Swing Line Lender in respect of principal or interest on any Swing Line Loan is required to be returned by the Swing Line Lender under any of the circumstances described in (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Swing Line Lender in its discretion), each Lender shall pay to the Swing Line Lender its Applicable Percentage thereof on demand of the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such amount is returned, at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate. The Administrative Agent will make such demand upon the request of the Swing Line Lender. The obligations of the Lenders under this clause shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Section 10.05
plus
 
     (e) . The Swing Line Lender shall be responsible for invoicing the Borrower for interest on the Swing Line Loans. Until each Lender funds its Base Rate Committed Loan or risk participation pursuant to this to refinance such Lender's Applicable Percentage of any Swing Line Loan, interest in respect of such Applicable Percentage shall be solely for the account of the Swing Line Lender.
Interest for Account of Swing Line Lender
Section 2.05
     (f) . The Borrower shall make all payments of principal and interest in respect of the Swing Line Loans directly to the Swing Line Lender.
Payments Directly to Swing Line Lender
     .
2.06 Prepayments
     (a) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay Committed Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice (which may be conditional) must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (A) three Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the of Committed Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be repaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to . Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Committed Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages.
provided
Type(s)
Section 3.05
     (b) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Swing Line Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at any time or from time to time, voluntarily prepay Swing Line Loans in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice must be received by the Swing Line Lender and the Administrative Agent not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date of the prepayment, and (ii) any such prepayment shall be in a minimum principal amount of $100,000. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein.
provided
     (c) If for any reason the Total Outstandings at any time exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect, the Borrower shall, on the next Business Day following the date on which the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent, prepay Loans and/or Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations in an aggregate amount equal to such excess; , , that the Borrower shall not be required to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations
provided
however
 
pursuant to this unless after the prepayment in full of the Loans the Total Outstandings exceed the Aggregate Commitments then in effect.
Section 2.06(c)
     (d) No Bid Loan may be prepaid without the prior consent of the applicable Bid Loan Lender.
     . The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, terminate the Aggregate Commitments, or from time to time permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitments; that (a) any such notice shall be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon three Business Days prior to the date of termination or reduction, (b) any such partial reduction shall be in an aggregate amount of $5,000,000 or any whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (c) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Aggregate Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and to any concurrent prepayments hereunder, the Total Outstandings would exceed the Aggregate Commitments, and (d) if, after giving effect to any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments, the Bid Loan Sublimit, the Letter of Credit Sublimit or the Swing Line Sublimit exceeds the amount of the Aggregate Commitments, such Sublimit shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such excess. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Lenders of any such notice of termination or reduction of the Aggregate Commitments. Any reduction of the Aggregate Commitments shall be applied to the Commitment of each Lender according to its Applicable Percentage. All fees accrued until the effective date of any termination of the Aggregate Commitments shall be paid on the effective date of such termination.
2.07 Termination or Reduction of Commitments
provided
     .
2.08 Repayment of Loans
     (a) The Borrower shall repay to the Lenders on the Maturity Date the aggregate principal amount of Committed Loans outstanding on such date.
     (b) The Borrower shall repay each Swing Line Loan on the earlier to occur of (i) the date ten Business Days after such Loan is made and (ii) the Maturity Date.
     .
2.09 Interest
     (a) At the Borrower's option, subject to the provisions of below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period the Applicable Rate; (ii) each Base Rate Committed Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate; (iii) each Bid Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for the Interest Period therefor at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period (or ) the Eurodollar Bid Margin, or at the Absolute Rate for such Interest Period, as the case may be; (iv) each LIBOR Floating Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate the Applicable Rate; and (v) each Swing Line Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate.
subsection (b)
plus
plus
minus
plus
 
     (b) (i) If any amount of principal of any Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (ii) If any amount (other than principal of any Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
     (iii) Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
     (c) Interest on each Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
     . In addition to certain fees described in and of :
2.10 Fees
subsections (i)
(j)
Section 2.04
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender in accordance with its Applicable Percentage, a facility fee equal to the Applicable Rate the actual daily amount of the Aggregate Commitments (or, if the Aggregate Commitments have terminated, on the Total Outstandings, regardless of usage. The facility fee shall accrue at all times during the Availability Period (and thereafter so long as any Committed Loans, Swing Line Loans or L/C Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December, commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the last day of the Availability Period (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand). The facility fee shall be calculated quarterly in arrears, and if there is any change in the Applicable Rate during any quarter, the actual daily amount shall be computed and multiplied by the Applicable Rate separately for each period during such quarter that such Applicable Rate was in effect.
Facility Fee
times
Article IV
     (b) . The Borrower shall pay to each of Banc of America Securities LLC, Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC and the Administrative Agent for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Other Fees
     . All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by Bank of America's "prime rate" shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days
2.11 Computation of Interest and Fees
 
elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Loan for the day on which the Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Loan or such portion is paid, that any Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to , bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
provided
Section 2.13(a)
     .
2.12 Evidence of Debt
     (a) The Credit Extensions made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Credit Extensions made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lender's Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     (b) In addition to the accounts and records referred to in , each Lender and the Administrative Agent shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice accounts or records evidencing the purchases and sales by such Lender of participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by the Administrative Agent and the accounts and records of any Lender in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error.
subsection (a)
     .
2.13 Payments Generally; Administrative Agent's Clawback
     (a) . All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agent's Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 3:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 3:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day,
General
 
payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
     (b) (i) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Committed Borrowing of Eurodollar Rate Loans (or, in the case of any Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, prior to 1:00 p.m. on the date of such Committed Borrowing) that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Committed Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with (or, in the case of a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans, that such Lender has made such share available in accordance with and at the time required by ) and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (A) in the case of a payment to be made by such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, any administrative processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing, and (B) in the case of a payment to be made by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to Base Rate Loans. If the Borrower and such Lender shall pay such interest to the Administrative Agent for the same or an overlapping period, the Administrative Agent shall promptly remit to the Borrower the amount of such interest paid by the Borrower for such period. If such Lender pays its share of the applicable Committed Borrowing to the Administrative Agent, then the amount so paid shall constitute such Lender's Committed Loan included in such Committed Borrowing. Any payment by the Borrower shall be without prejudice to any claim the Borrower may have against a Lender that shall have failed to make such payment to the Administrative Agent.
Funding by Lenders; Presumption by Administrative Agent
Section 2.02
Section 2.02
plus
     (ii) . Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
 
     A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
subsection (b)
     (c) . If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the applicable Credit Extension set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
     (d) . The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Committed Loans, to fund participations in Letters of Credit and Swing Line Loans and to make payments pursuant to are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Committed Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Committed Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under .
Obligations of Lenders Several
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
Section 10.04(c)
     (e) . Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
     . If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Committed Loans made by it, or the participations in L/C Obligations or in Swing Line Loans held by it resulting in such Lender's receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Committed Loans or participations and accrued interest thereon greater than its share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Committed Loans and subparticipations in L/C Obligations and Swing Line Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Committed Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
2.14 Sharing of Payments by Lenders
pro
rata
provided
     (i) if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
     (ii) the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Committed Loans or
 
subparticipations in L/C Obligations or Swing Line Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
     The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
     .
2.15 Increase in Commitments
     (a) . Provided there exists no Default and no Default would result therefrom, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time request an increase in the Aggregate Commitments (an "") by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $500,000,000; that (i) any such request for an Increase shall be in a minimum amount of $25,000,000, and (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of five such requests; , , the amount of Increases hereunder the amount of Increases under the 364-Day Working Capital Credit Agreement (as such term is defined therein) shall not exceed, in the aggregate, $500,000,000. At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
Request for Increase
Increase
provided
provided
however
plus
     (b) . Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within such time period whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested Increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
     (c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of the Lenders' responses to each request made hereunder. To achieve the full amount of a requested Increase and subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld), the Borrower may also invite Eligible Assignees to become additional Lenders ("") pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel; , that the Borrower may only invite such Additional Lenders after each existing Lender has notified the Administrative Agent of its decision in accordance with above, and any such invitation to such Additional Lenders shall only be with respect to amounts declined or deemed to be declined by existing Lenders.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
Additional Lenders
provided
however
clause (b)
     (d) . If the Aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the "") and the final allocation of such Increase. The
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
 
Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the final allocation of such Increase and the Increase Effective Date.
     (e) . As a condition precedent to each Increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Borrower as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Borrower approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) certifying that, before and after giving effect to such Increase, no Default exists or would result from such Increase. The Borrower shall prepay Committed Loans outstanding to all or certain of the Lenders on the Increase Effective Date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) and/or borrow Committed Loans from all or certain of the Lenders on the Increase Effective Date to the extent necessary to keep the outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages arising from any nonratable increase in the Commitments under this Section.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
Section 3.05
     (f) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.14
10.01
     .
2.16 Extension of Maturity Date
     (a) . The Borrower may, by notice to the Administrative Agent (who shall promptly notify the Lenders) not later than 60 days prior to the second anniversary of the Closing Date then in effect hereunder, request that each Lender extend the Maturity Date (the "") for one additional one-year period.
Requests for Extension
Original Maturity Date
     (b) . Each Lender, acting in its sole and individual discretion, shall, by notice to the Administrative Agent given not earlier than 30 days prior to the Original Maturity Date and not later than the date (the "") that is 20 days prior to the Original Maturity Date, advise the Administrative Agent whether or not such Lender agrees to such extension (and each Lender that determines not to so extend their Maturity Date (a "") shall notify the Administrative Agent of such fact promptly after such determination (but in any event no later than the Notice Date) and any Lender that does not so advise the Administrative Agent on or before the Notice Date shall be deemed to be a Non-Extending Lender. The election of any Lender to agree to such extension shall not obligate any other Lender to so agree.
Lender Elections to Extend
Notice Date
Non-Extending Lender
     (c) . The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of each Lender's determination under this Section no later than the date 15 days prior to the Original Maturity Date (or, if such date is not a Business Day, on the next preceding Business Day).
Notification by Administrative Agent
     (d) . The Borrower shall have the right to replace each Non-Extending Lender with, and add as "Lenders" under this Agreement in place thereof, one or more Eligible Assignees (each, an "") as provided in , that each of such Additional Commitment Lenders shall enter into an Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Additional Commitment Lender shall, effective as of the Original Maturity Date, undertake a Commitment (and, if any such Additional
Additional Commitment Lenders
Additional Commitment Lender
Section 10.13
provided
 
Commitment Lender is already a Lender, its Commitment shall be in addition to such Lender's Commitment hereunder on such date).
     (e) . If (and only if) the total of the Commitments of the Lenders that have agreed so to extend their Maturity Date (each, an "") shall be more than 50% of the aggregate amount of the Commitments in effect immediately prior to the Original Maturity Date, then, effective as of the Original Maturity Date, the Maturity Date of each Extending Lender and of each Additional Commitment Lender shall be extended to the date falling one year after the Original Maturity Date (except that, if such date is not a Business Day, such Maturity Date as so extended shall be the next preceding Business Day) and each Additional Commitment Lender shall thereupon become a "Lender" for all purposes of this Agreement.
Minimum Extension Requirement
Extending Lender
     (f) . As a condition precedent to such extension, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate dated as of the Original Maturity Date (in sufficient copies for each Extending Lender and each Additional Commitment Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Borrower approving or consenting to such extension and (ii) certifying that the representation and warranty contained in is true and correct on and as of the Original Maturity Date. In addition, on the Maturity Date of each Non-Extending Lender, the Borrower shall prepay any Committed Loans outstanding on such date (and pay any additional amounts required pursuant to ) to the extent necessary to keep outstanding Committed Loans ratable with any revised Applicable Percentages of the respective Lenders effective as of such date.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Extensions
Section 5.04(c)
Section 3.05
     (g) . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.14
10.01
     .
3.01 Taxes
     (a) . Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or L/C Issuer, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
 
     (b) . Without limiting the provisions of above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
subsection (a)
     (c) . Without duplication of any additional amounts paid pursuant to , the Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the L/C Issuer, within ten days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority, that, if the Borrower determines that any such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were not correctly or legally imposed or asserted, the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as applicable, shall allow the Borrower to contest (and shall cooperate in such contest), the imposition of such Tax upon the reasonable request of the Borrower and at the Borrower's expense; , , that the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as applicable, shall not be required to participate in any contest that would, in its reasonable judgment, expose it to a material commercial disadvantage or require it to disclose any information it considers confidential or proprietary. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or the L/C Issuer (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, shall be conclusive; that such amounts are determined on a reasonable basis.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Section 3.01(a)
provided
provided
however
provided
     (d) . As soon as reasonably practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
     (e) . Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Each Lender shall promptly provide such forms upon becoming aware of the obsolescence, expiration or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Lender (unless it is legally unable to do so as a result of a Change in Law) and shall promptly notify the Borrower at any time it determines that any previously delivered forms are no longer valid.
Status of Lenders
 
     Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
     (i) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
     (ii) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
     (iii) in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a "bank" within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a "10 percent shareholder" of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a "controlled foreign corporation" described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
     (iv) any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
     (f) . If the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines, in its reasonable discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes or determines in its sole discretion exercised in good faith that it has obtained the benefit of a credit for Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund or the net benefit attributable to such credit (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund or credit), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund or credit), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower ( any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer in the event the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the L/C Issuer is required to repay such refund or credit to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it reasonably deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds and Credits
provided
plus
 
     . If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Committed Loans or LIBOR Floating Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
3.02 Illegality
     . If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a Committed Borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
3.03 Inability to Determine Rates
     .
3.04 Increased Costs
     (a) . If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
     (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate) or the L/C Issuer;
     (ii) subject any Lender or the L/C Issuer to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement, any Letter of Credit, any participation in a Letter of Credit or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender or the L/C Issuer in respect thereof (except for Indemnified
 
Taxes or Other Taxes covered by and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer); or
Section 3.01
     (iii) impose on any Lender or the L/C Issuer or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender or the L/C Issuer of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit (or of maintaining its obligation to participate in or to issue any Letter of Credit), or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
     (b) . If any Lender or the L/C Issuer determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or the L/C Issuer or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the L/C Issuer, to a level below that which such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
     (c) . A certificate of a Lender or the L/C Issuer setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the L/C Issuer or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in or of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error; that such determinations are made on a reasonable basis. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within ten days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
subsection (a)
(b)
provided
     (d) . Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the L/C Issuer's right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such
Delay in Requests
provided
 
Lender's or the L/C Issuer's intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six-month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
     . Upon written request of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent, which shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for requesting such amounts), from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
3.05 Compensation for Losses
     (a) any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
     (b) any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Loan other than a Base Rate Loan or a LIBOR Floating Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
     (c) any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to ;
Section 10.13
including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary out-of-pocket administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
     For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this , each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
Section 3.05
     .
3.06 Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
     (a) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to , then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to or , as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to , as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.02
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.02
 
     (b) . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with .
Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
Section 10.13
     . All of the Borrower's obligations under this shall survive termination of the Aggregate Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
3.07 Survival
Article III
     . The obligation of the L/C Issuer and each Lender to make its initial Credit Extension hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
4.01 Conditions of Initial Credit Extension
     (a) The Administrative Agent's receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
     (i) executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
     (ii) a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note at least two Business Days prior to the Closing Date;
     (iii) such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require evidencing the authority of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party;
     (iv) such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed, and that the Borrower is validly existing and in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization;
     (v) (i) an opinion of in-house counsel for the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in the form of and (ii) an opinion of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen, & Katz, special counsel for the Borrower, in the form of ;
Exhibit E-1
Exhibit E-2
     (vi) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that there has been no event or circumstance since December 31, 2006, that has had or could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;
     (vii) a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying as to the accuracy and completeness of the Acquisition Documents, copies of which shall be
 
attached thereto, and certifying that the Acquisition shall have been, or substantially simultaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement shall be, consummated;
     (viii) satisfactory evidence that the Existing Credit Facilities shall have been, or will be substantially contemporaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement, terminated and repaid in full;
     (ix) satisfactory evidence that (A) the 364-Day Working Capital Credit Agreement and (B) the 364-Day Bridge Credit Agreement, dated on or about the date hereof, by and among the Borrower, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto shall have been, or will be substantially contemporaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement, consummated; and
     (x) such other documents as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
     (b) The Acquisition shall have been, or substantially simultaneously with the effectiveness of this Agreement shall be, consummated on or before November 30, 2007 in accordance with the Acquisition Agreement. The Acquisition Documents shall be reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers, it being understood that the Acquisition Agreement dated as of February 19, 2007, as amended by Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 9, 2007, is satisfactory to the Arrangers. All conditions precedent to the consummation of the Acquisition shall have been satisfied or waived (with the prior consent of the Arrangers if the Arrangers reasonably determine such waiver is materially adverse to the Lenders).
     (c) Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
     (d) Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced two Business Days prior to the Closing Date, such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
plus
     Without limiting the generality of the provisions of , for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this , each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
Section 9.04
Section 4.01
     . The obligation of each Lender to honor any Request for Credit Extension (other than the initial funding on the Closing Date, a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) is subject to the following conditions precedent:
4.02 Conditions to all Credit Extensions
 
     (a) All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (except for the representations and warranties contained in and hereof) that are qualified by materiality shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, and all representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in (except for the representations and warranties contained in and hereof) that are not qualified by materiality shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of such Credit Extension, except, in each case, to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically refer to an earlier date, in which case they shall be true and correct as of such earlier date.
Article V
Sections 5.04(c)
5.05
Article V
Sections 5.04(c)
5.05
     (b) No Default shall exist, or would result from such proposed Credit Extension or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
     (c) The Administrative Agent and, if applicable, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender shall have received a Request for Credit Extension in accordance with the requirements hereof.
     Each Request for Credit Extension (other than a Committed Loan Notice requesting only a conversion of Committed Loans to the other Type or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans) submitted by the Borrower shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty that the conditions specified in and have been satisfied on and as of the date of the applicable Credit Extension.
Sections 4.02(a)
(b)
     The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
     . The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, is duly qualified to transact business in every jurisdiction where the failure to qualify would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and has all corporate powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted except to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.01 Existence, Qualification and Power
     . The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents (a) are within the Borrower's corporate powers, (b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, (c) require no approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person, except as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (d) do not violate or constitute a default under, (i) any provision of applicable law or regulation, (ii) any material agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other material instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (iii) the Organization Documents of the Borrower, and (e) do not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the material assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except in each case referred to in , or
5.02 Authorization; No Contravention; Governmental Authorization
clauses (d)(i)
(d)(ii)
(e)
 
to the extent such conflict, breach or violation would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the Notes and the other Loan Documents, when executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, that the enforceability hereof and thereof is subject in each case to general principles of equity and to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights generally, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
5.03 Binding Effect
provided
     .
5.04 Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
     (a) The audited consolidated balance sheet of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006 (i) was prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (ii) fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein.
     (b) The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of VMC and its Consolidated Subsidiaries dated March 31, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of and , to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.
clauses (i)
(ii)
     (c) Since December 31, 2006, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     . Except as disclosed in any SEC filings of the Borrower, VMC or the Target made prior to the Closing Date, there is no action, suit or proceeding pending, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened in writing, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner draws into question the validity of or which involves this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Documents.
5.05 Litigation
     . There have been filed on behalf of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries all Federal income tax returns and all other material income, excise, property and other tax returns which are required to be filed by them and all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary have been paid,
5.06 Taxes
 
except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.
     .
5.07 ERISA Compliance
     (a) With respect to each Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan), the Borrower and each member of the Controlled Group have fulfilled their obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code and are in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, and have not incurred any material liability to the PBGC (other than for premiums due but not yet delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA) or a Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) under Title IV of ERISA (other than contributions in the ordinary course).
     (b) Neither the Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has incurred any withdrawal liability with respect to any Multiemployer Plan under Title IV of ERISA that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and no such liability is expected to be incurred that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
     .
5.08 Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
     (a) The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
     (b) The Borrower is not and is not required to be registered as an "investment company" under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
     . No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), taken as a whole and including the information contained in any filings made with the SEC by the Borrower, VMC or the Target, contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading at the time made; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by the Borrower to be reasonable at the time.
5.09 Disclosure
provided
     . The Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions, executive orders and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
5.10 Compliance with Laws
 
     . The Borrower's true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
5.11 Taxpayer Identification Number
Schedule 10.02
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding without having been Cash Collateralized, the Borrower shall:
     . Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.01 Financial Statements
     (a) as soon as available, but in any event within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all accompanied by a report thereon of a Registered Public Accounting Firm, with such certification to be free of a going concern qualification or qualification as to the scope of audit; and
     (b) as soon as available, but in any event within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007), (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal quarter and the related statement of income, and (ii) a statement of cash flows for the portion of the fiscal year ended at the end of such fiscal quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form, respectively, the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all certified (subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes) as to fairness of presentation and GAAP by the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of the Borrower.
     As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to , the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under or above, and to the extent that the Borrower has filed a Form 10K or Form 10Q for the respective financial period with the SEC, it shall be deemed to have satisfied and above.
Section 6.02(b)
clause (a)
(b)
clauses (a)
(b)
     . Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
6.02 Certificates; Other Information
     (a) concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in and (commencing with the delivery of the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2007), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower;
Sections 6.01(a)
(b)
     (b) promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which
 
the Borrower may file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
     (c) promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
     Documents required to be delivered pursuant to or or (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the Internet, at ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that makes a written request to the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender. Except for Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 6.01(a)
(b)
Section 6.02(b)
www.sec.gov
provided
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, "") by posting the Borrower Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and (b) certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a ""). The Borrower hereby agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked "PUBLIC" which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials "PUBLIC", the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in ); (y) all Borrower Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated "Public Investor"; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not
Borrower Materials
Platform
i.e.,
Public Lender
provided
however
Section 10.07
 
designated "Public Investor". Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials "PUBLIC".
     . Promptly, but in any event, within five (5) Business Days of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower becoming aware thereof, notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
6.03 Notices
     (a) of the occurrence of any Default that is continuing; and
     (b) of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a contractual obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws.
     Each notice pursuant to this shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to shall describe with reasonable particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
Section 6.03
Section 6.03(a)
     . Pay and discharge all its material obligations and liabilities prior to such obligations or liabilities being delinquent, including all Federal income taxes and all other material tax liabilities, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary, except where the failure to so pay, discharge, contest or maintain reserves would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.04 Payment of Obligations
     . (a) Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation except in a transaction permitted hereunder; (b) preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, except where the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and (c) take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that the Borrower determines such action is not necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.05 Preservation of Existence
     . Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof, except where the Borrower determines such action is not necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.06 Maintenance of Properties
 
     . Maintain insurance, or adequate reserves in lieu of insurance, against loss to all property owned by it material to its business in comparable amounts and against such risks as are usually insured against in the same general locale by companies of established repute engaged in the same or similar business.
6.07 Self-Insurance
     . Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
6.08 Compliance with Laws
     . (a) Keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities sufficient to permit the preparation of statements in conformity with GAAP; and (b) permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine extracts from its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its officers and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as applicable, to the extent reasonably requested and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower, but not more frequently than once per every 12 month period, , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower as often as may be reasonably requested.
6.09 Books and Records; Inspection Rights
provided
however
     . Use the proceeds of the Borrowings solely (a) for the payment of amounts payable under the Acquisition Documents as consideration for the Acquisition, (b) for the payment of fees, commissions and expenses payable in connection with the Transactions, (c) to refinance all indebtedness outstanding under the Existing Credit Facilities, (d) to provide liquidity for ordinary course commercial paper credit facilities to which the Borrower is a party and commercial paper issued by the Borrower on or about the Closing Date the proceeds of which are used to finance the Acquisition in part, and (e) for ongoing working capital requirements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and for general corporate purposes.
6.10 Use of Proceeds
     So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, or any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding without having been Cash Collateralized, the Borrower shall not, directly or indirectly:
     . Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
7.01 Liens
 
     (a) Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
     (b) Liens existing on the date of this Agreement;
     (c) Liens on any asset securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing, refinancing or refunding all or any part of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such asset; that such Lien attaches to such asset concurrently with or within 18 months after the acquisition or completion of construction thereof;
provided
     (d) Liens on any asset of any Person existing at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such event;
     (e) Liens existing on any asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such acquisition;
     (f) Liens in favor of any Subsidiary;
     (g) Liens arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal, refunding or replacement of any Indebtedness secured by any Lien permitted by any of the foregoing paragraphs of this ; that the amount of such Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is not increased;
Section 7.01
provided
     (h) Liens incidental to the conduct of its business or the ownership of its assets which (i) do not secure Indebtedness and (ii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
     (i) Liens on margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB);
     (j) Liens on Receivables pursuant to a bona fide Receivables Securitization;
     (k) Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing subsections of this securing Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed 20% of Shareholders' Equity; and
Section 7.01
     (l) Permitted Encumbrances.
     . Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into any other Person (other than the Transactions), that the Borrower may enter into any such transaction with another Person so long as (a) the Borrower is the surviving entity, or the surviving entity is a Person is organized under the laws of the United States of America or one of its States or Commonwealths or the District of Columbia and expressly assumes in writing the obligations set forth under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (b) such Person is engaged in lines of business substantially similar to those lines of business conducted by the Borrower on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto or logical extensions thereof, (c) prior to giving effect to such transaction, each of S&P and Moody's shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a ratings letter indicating that, after giving effect to such transaction, the Surviving Person shall have a Debt Rating of not less than BBB-/Baa3, as
7.02 Fundamental Changes
provided
 
applicable, and (d) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
     . Sell, lease or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, unless (a) such sale, lease or other transfer is to the Borrower or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary, or (b) such sale or other transfer consists of the sale of Receivables pursuant to a Receivables Securitization.
7.03 Sales of Assets
     . Suffer or permit the dissolution or liquidation of any Significant Subsidiary, except (a) in connection with a corporate reorganization of the Borrower permitted by , or (b) in connection with the sale of a Subsidiary or its assets permitted pursuant to .
7.04 Dissolution
Section 7.02
Section 7.03
     . Use the proceeds of any Borrowing, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
7.05 Use of Proceeds
     . Permit the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization at any time to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00; , , that if in connection with a Specified Acquisition, (i) Consolidated Debt has increased as a result of such Specified Acquisition from the amount thereof immediately prior to such Specified Acquisition and (ii) the Administrative Agent has received a Specified Acquisition Notice within ten days after consummation of such Specified Acquisition, then, for a period of 180 consecutive days following the consummation of such Specified Acquisition, the additional Consolidated Debt incurred or assumed in connection with such Specified Acquisition shall be excluded from Consolidated Debt for purposes of calculating the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization so long as such ratio, if calculated without such exclusion, would not exceed 0.75 to 1.00; , that such additional Consolidated Debt shall not be excluded from such ratio if in connection with the related Specified Acquisition, the Borrower's Debt Rating is suspended, withdrawn or reduced to below the Reference Level. For purposes of calculating the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization, Consolidated Debt shall exclude Hybrid Securities to the extent such excluded amount does not exceed 15% of Total Capitalization at such time.
7.06 Ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization
provided
however
provided
further
however
     For purposes of this :
Section 7.06
     (a) "Hybrid Securities" means long-term securities issued by either the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof that (i) are contractually subordinated to senior indebtedness, (ii) mature at least ten years after the issuance thereof, (iii) allow the issuer to temporarily defer the payment of interest, and (iv) receive some degree of equity classification by S&P at the time such securities were issued;
     (b) "Reference Level" means a Debt Rating of BBB or better by S&P or Baa2 or better by Moody's; that if only one of the foregoing Debt Ratings is satisfied, the other Debt Rating is not lower than BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moody's;
provided
 
     (c) a "Specified Acquisition" means any acquisition by the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower of any Person (the "Specified Acquisition Target") (or substantially all of the assets of any Person or division thereof), that (x) is engaged in lines of business substantially similar to those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto or logical extensions thereof and (y) such Specified Acquisition Target's board of directors have not objected to such acquisition; and
     (d) a "Specified Acquisition Notice" means a notice delivered by the Borrower notifying the Administrative Agent of a Specified Acquisition and stating that the conditions in and to the proviso to the first sentence of above have been satisfied.
clauses (i)
(ii)
Section 7.06
     . Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
8.01 Events of Default
     (a) . The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as due and payable, any amount of principal of any Loan, or (ii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five Business Days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
     (b) . The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of (within 15 days after any financial statements required to be delivered under are due), , (with respect to existence only), or or ; or
Specific Covenants
Section 6.01
Section 6.01
6.03
6.05
6.09(b)
6.10
Article VII
     (c) . The Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those covered by or above) and such failure shall not have been cured within 30 days after the earlier to occur of (i) written notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of any Lender and (ii) a Responsible Officer otherwise becomes aware of any such failure; or
Other Defaults
subsection (a)
(b)
     (d) . Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
     (e) . (i) The Borrower shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness under any Working Capital Credit Facility which results in the acceleration of the maturity of such Indebtedness; or (ii) the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (other than the Notes) if the aggregate amount of such payment is equal to or greater than $25,000,000 when due (after any applicable grace period); or (iii) any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations, in each case that are Guaranteed by the Borrower, if the aggregate amount of such payment is equal to or greater than
Cross-Default
 
$25,000,000 when due (after any applicable grace period); or (iv) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations in the aggregate outstanding (other than the Notes) equal to or greater than $100,000,000 of the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary) or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holders of such Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (or commitment with respect thereto) or any Person acting on such holders' behalf to accelerate the maturity thereof or terminate any such commitment (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary); or (v) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations in the aggregate outstanding (other than the Notes) of any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary the Guaranteed Amount of which is equal to or greater than $100,000,000 (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary) or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holders of such Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (or commitment with respect thereto) or any Person acting on such holders' behalf to accelerate the maturity thereof or terminate any such commitment (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or "put" of such Indebtedness to any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary); or
     (f)  The Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any substantial part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for 60 calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any substantial part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for 60 calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc.
     (g) . (i) The Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or a substantial part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated, discharged or fully bonded within 30 days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
     (h) . One or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary and such judgment or order shall continue unsatisfied and unstayed for a period of 30 days (i) after the entry of any such judgment or order, or (ii) after any appeal in good faith of such judgment or order so long as during such appeal any execution of such judgment or order is stayed; or
Judgments
 
     (i) . (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or is reasonably likely to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000; or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000.
ERISA
     . If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
8.02 Remedies Upon Event of Default
     (a) declare the commitment of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
     (b) declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower;
     (c) require that the Borrower Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations (in an amount equal to the then Outstanding Amount thereof); and
     (d) exercise on behalf of itself, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under the Loan Documents;
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the obligation of each Lender to make Loans and any obligation of the L/C Issuer to make L/C Credit Extensions shall automatically terminate, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, and the obligation of the Borrower to Cash Collateralize the L/C Obligations as aforesaid shall automatically become effective, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
     . After the exercise of remedies provided for in (or after the Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable and the L/C Obligations have automatically been required to be Cash Collateralized as set forth in the proviso to ), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
8.03 Application of Funds
Section 8.02
Section 8.02
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
 
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest and Letter of Credit Fees) payable to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and the L/C Issuer and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Second
Article III
Second
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and unpaid Letter of Credit Fees and interest on the Loans, L/C Borrowings and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause payable to them;
Third
Third
     , to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Loans and L/C Borrowings, ratably among the Lenders and the L/C Issuer in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause held by them;
Fourth
Fourth
     , to the Administrative Agent for the account of the L/C Issuer, to Cash Collateralize that portion of L/C Obligations comprised of the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit; and
Fifth
     , the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
Subject to , amounts used to Cash Collateralize the aggregate undrawn amount of Letters of Credit pursuant to clause above shall be applied to satisfy drawings under such Letters of Credit as they occur. If any amount remains on deposit as Cash Collateral after all Letters of Credit have either been fully drawn or expired, such remaining amount shall be applied to the other Obligations, if any, in the order set forth above.
Section 2.04(c)
Fifth
     . Each of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereby irrevocably appoints Bank of America to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
9.01 Appointment and Authority
     . The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with
9.02 Rights as a Lender
 
the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
     . The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
9.03 Exculpatory Provisions
     (a) shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
     (b) shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
     (c) shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
     The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in and ) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower, a Lender or the L/C Issuer.
Sections 10.01
8.02
     The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
     . The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have
9.04 Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan, or the issuance of a Letter of Credit, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender or the L/C Issuer, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender or the L/C Issuer unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender or the L/C Issuer prior to the making of such Loan or the issuance of such Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
     . The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
9.05 Delegation of Duties
     . The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then, unless other arrangements satisfactory to the Administrative Agent have been made, such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the L/C Issuer directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the
9.06 Resignation of Administrative Agent
provided
 
provisions of this Article and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Section 10.04
     Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender, (b) the retiring L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents, and (c) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangements satisfactory to the retiring L/C Issuer to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring L/C Issuer with respect to such Letters of Credit.
     . Each Lender and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
9.07 Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
     . Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Joint Bookrunners, Joint Lead Arrangers, Syndication Agent or Co-Documentation Agents listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or the L/C Issuer hereunder.
9.08 No Other Duties, Etc
     . In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or L/C Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
9.09 Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
     (a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, L/C Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due
 
the Lenders, the L/C Issuer and the Administrative Agent under and , and ) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.04(i)
(j)
2.10
10.04
     (b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the L/C Issuer to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under and .
Sections 2.10
10.04
     Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the L/C Issuer any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or the L/C Issuer to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender or the L/C Issuer in any such proceeding.
     . No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
10.01 Amendments, Etc
provided
however
     (a) waive any condition set forth in without the written consent of each Lender;
Section 4.01(a)
     (b) extend or increase the Commitment of any Lender (or reinstate any Commitment terminated pursuant to ) without the written consent of such Lender;
Section 8.02
     (c) postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment or mandatory prepayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) or any scheduled or mandatory reduction of the Aggregate Commitments hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
     (d) reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Loan or L/C Borrowing, or (subject to of the second proviso to this ) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of "Default Rate" or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest or Letter of Credit Fees at the Default Rate;
clause (iv)
Section 10.01
provided
however
 
     (e) change or in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender; or
Section 2.14
Section 8.03
     (f) change any provision of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
and, , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the L/C Issuer in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the L/C Issuer under this Agreement or any Issuer Document relating to any Letter of Credit issued or to be issued by it; (ii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Swing Line Lender in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Swing Line Lender under this Agreement; (iii) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (iv) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
     .
10.02 Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
     (a) . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
subsection (b)
     (i) if to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or the Swing Line Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
     (ii) if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
     Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in below, shall be effective as provided in such .
subsection (b)
subsection (b)
     (b) . Notices and other communications to the Lenders and the L/C Issuer hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the
Electronic Communications
 
Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender or the L/C Issuer pursuant to if such Lender or the L/C Issuer, as applicable, has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
provided
Article II
provided
     Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the sender's receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the "return receipt requested" function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
clause (i)
     (c) . THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND "AS AVAILABLE." THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the "") have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrower's or the Administrative Agent's transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
     (d) . Each of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address,
Change of Address, Etc
 
contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for `such Lender.
     (e) . The Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Committed Loan Notices and Swing Line Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, except to the extent that such losses, claims, expenses or liabilities are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Related Party. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent, L/C Issuer and Lenders
     . No failure by any Lender, the L/C Issuer or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
10.03 No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
     .
10.04 Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
     (a) . The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the L/C Issuer in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer) in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Costs and Expenses
     (b) . The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender and the L/C Issuer, and each
Indemnification by the Borrower
 
Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the L/C Issuer to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), or (iii) any actual or prospective claim, penalty, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitee's obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnitee
provided
     (c) . To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under or of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the L/C Issuer or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the L/C Issuer or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the L/C Issuer in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or L/C Issuer in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this are subject to the provisions of .
Reimbursement by Lenders
subsection (a)
(b)
provided
subsection (c)
Section 2.13 (d)
     (d)  To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc.
subsection (b)
 
distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence of willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
     (e) . All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
     (f) . The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer and the Swing Line Lender, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Aggregate Commitments and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
     To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then (a) to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred, and (b) each Lender and the L/C Issuer severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent upon demand its applicable share (without duplication) of any amount so recovered from or repaid by the Administrative Agent, interest thereon from the date of such demand to the date such payment is made at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. The obligations of the Lenders and the L/C Issuer under of the preceding sentence shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
10.05 Payments Set Aside.
plus
clause (b)
     .
10.06 Successors and Assigns
     (a) . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent,
Successors and Assigns Generally
subsection (b)
subsection (d)
subsection (f)
subsection (d)
 
the L/C Issuer and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
     (b) . Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans (including for purposes of this , participations in L/C Obligations and in Swing Line Loans) at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
subsection (b)
provided
     (i) Minimum Amounts.
     (A) in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
     (B) in any case not described in of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if "Trade Date" is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
subsection (b)(i)(A)
provided
however
     (ii) . Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Loans or the Commitment assigned, except that this shall not apply to the Swing Line Lender's rights and obligations in respect of Swing Line Loans.
Proportionate Amounts
clause (ii)
     (iii) . No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
subsection (b)(i)(B)
     (A) the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund;
     (B) the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to be a
 
Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender;
     (C) the consent of the L/C Issuer (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment that increases the obligation of the assignee to participate in exposure under one or more Letters of Credit (whether or not then outstanding); and
     (D) the consent of the Swing Line Lender (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required for any assignment.
     (iv) . The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
     (v) . No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
     (vi) . No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
     Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of , , , and with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with of this Section.
subsection (c)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
10.04
subsection (d)
     (c) . The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agent's Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans and L/C Obligations owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the
Register
Register
 
Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
     (d) . Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Loans (including such Lender's participations in L/C Obligations and/or Swing Line Loans) owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
     Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to that adversely affects such Participant. Subject to of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of , and to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to as though it were a Lender.
provided
Section 10.01
subsection (e)
Sections 3.01
3.04
3.05
subsection (b)
Section 10.08
provided
Section 2.14
     (e) . A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under or than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
Section 3.01
3.04
Section 3.01
Section 3.01(e)
     (f) . Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
     (g) . The words "execution," "signed," "signature", and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to
Electronic Execution of Assignments
 
include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
     (h) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if at any time any Lender assigns all of its Commitment and Loans pursuant to above, such Lender (a "") may, as applicable and unless other arrangements satisfactory to such Resigning Lender have been made, (i) upon 30 days' notice to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the other Lenders, resign as L/C Issuer and/or (ii) upon 30 days' notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, resign as Swing Line Lender. In the event of any such resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, the Borrower shall be entitled to appoint from among the Lenders a successor L/C Issuer (in accordance with the terms of ) or Swing Line Lender hereunder; , , that no failure by the Borrower to appoint any such successor shall affect the resignation of such Resigning Lender as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be. If any Lender resigns as L/C Issuer, it shall retain all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the L/C Issuer hereunder with respect to all Letters of Credit outstanding as of the effective date of its resignation as L/C Issuer and all L/C Obligations with respect thereto (including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in Unreimbursed Amounts pursuant to ). If any Lender resigns as Swing Line Lender, it shall retain all the rights of the Swing Line Lender provided for hereunder with respect to Swing Line Loans made by it and outstanding as of the effective date of such resignation, including the right to require the Lenders to make Base Rate Committed Loans or fund risk participations in outstanding Swing Line Loans pursuant to . Upon the appointment of a successor L/C Issuer and/or Swing Line Lender, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, and (b) the successor L/C Issuer shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such successor or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Resigning Lender to effectively assume the obligations of the Resigning Lender with respect to such Letters of Credit.
Resignation as L/C Issuer or Swing Line Lender after Assignment
subsection (b)
Resigning Lender
Section 2.03(l)
provided
however
Section 2.04(c)
Section 2.05(c)
     . Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or any of its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the
10.07 Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
 
enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the L/C Issuer or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
     For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the L/C Issuer on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
provided
     Each of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the L/C Issuer acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
     . If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender, the L/C Issuer and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender, the L/C Issuer or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender or the L/C Issuer, irrespective of whether or not such Lender or the L/C Issuer shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender or the L/C Issuer different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender, the L/C Issuer and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender, the L/C Issuer or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender and the L/C Issuer agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
10.08 Right of Setoff
provided
     . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the "
10.09 Interest Rate Limitation
Maximum
 
"). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Rate
     . This Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in , this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall become effective when they shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement and any other Loan Document by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
10.10 Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
Section 4.01
     . All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied; that such representations and warranties shall only be made or deemed made as of the dates explicitly required herein or therein. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender.
10.11 Survival of Representations and Warranties
provided
     . If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
10.12 Severability
     . If any Lender requests compensation under , or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to , or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required
10.13 Replacement of Lenders
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
 
by, ), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Section 10.06
provided
     (a) the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in ;
Section 10.06(b)
     (b) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and L/C Advances, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under ) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
Section 3.05
     (c) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under or payments required to be made pursuant to , such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
Section 3.04
Section 3.01
     (d) such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
     A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
     .
10.14 Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
     (a) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW
     (b) . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE NONEXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, ANY LENDER OR THE L/C ISSUER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY OF THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO OR THEIR PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
     (c) . EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
     (d) . EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN . NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
SECTION 10.02
     . EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
10.15 Waiver of Jury Trial
     . In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers, on the other hand, the Borrower is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification thereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent and each Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor the Arrangers has assumed or will
10.16 No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
 
assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or any Arranger has advised or is currently advising the Borrower or any of its Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent and each Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent and each Arranger have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate. The Borrower hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent and each Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
     . Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
10.17 USA PATRIOT Act Notice
Act
 
     the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE 2.01
 
EXHIBIT A
Date: ,
                    
     
To: Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
A Borrowing of Committed Loans       A conversion or continuation of Committed Loans
o
o
     1. On (a Business Day).
                    
                    
     2. In the amount of $.
                    
     3. Comprised of .
                    
                    
[Type of Committed Loan requested]
     4. For Eurodollar Rate Loans: with an Interest Period of months.
                    
     The Committed Borrowing, if any, requested herein complies with the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.01
 
EXHIBIT B-1
To: Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Agreement
Borrower
     The Lenders are invited to make Bid Loans:
     1. On (a Business Day).
                    
                    
     2. In an aggregate amount not exceeding $ (with any sublimits set forth below).
                    
     3. Comprised of (select one):
           Bid Loans based on an Absolute            Bid Loans based on Eurodollar Rate Rate
o
o
     The Bid Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of the proviso to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.03(a)
     The Borrower authorizes the Administrative Agent to deliver this Bid Request to the Lenders. Responses by the Lenders must be in substantially the form of to the Agreement and must be received by the Administrative Agent by the time specified in of the Agreement for submitting Competitive Bids.
Exhibit B-2
Section 2.03
 
EXHIBIT B-2
, ______
                    
To:    Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ";" the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Agreement
Borrower
     In response to the Bid Request dated , 20___, the undersigned offers to make the following Bid Loan(s):
                    
     1. Borrowing date (a Business Day).
                    
     2. In an aggregate amount not exceeding $ (with any sublimits set forth below).
                    
     3. Comprised of:
 
 
     The offers made above are hereby accepted in the amounts set forth below:
VIRGINIA HOLDCO, INC.
 
EXHIBIT C
Date: , _____
                    
To:    Bank of America, N.A., as Swing Line Lender
Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned hereby requests a Swing Line Loan:
     1. On (a Business Day).
                    
                    
     2. In the amount of $.
                    
                    
     The Swing Line Borrowing requested herein complies with the requirements of the provisos to the first sentence of of the Agreement.
Section 2.05(a)
 
EXHIBIT D
                    
     FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the "") hereby promises to pay to or registered assigns (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Borrower
                    
                    
Lender
Agreement
     The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. Except as otherwise provided in of the Agreement with respect to Swing Line Loans, all payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agent's Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
Section 2.05(f)
     This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
     The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
     THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
 
 
EXHIBIT E
Financial Statement Date: , _____
                    
To:    Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Reference is made to that certain Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ""; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Virginia Holdco, Inc., a New Jersey corporation (the ""), the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer.
Agreement
Borrower
     The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
                    
                    
                                         
                    
     1. Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(a)
     1. Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
Section 6.01(b)
     2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
     3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
 
     
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.]
     
[the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
     4. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedule 2
     the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of , ___.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
                    
                    
 
For the Quarter/Year ended ("")
                    
                    
Statement Date
Section 7.06  Ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization.
 
EXHIBIT F
     This Assignment and Assumption (this "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between Assignor identified in item 1 below ("") and Assignee identified in item 2 below (""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
[the][each]
2
[the][each, an]
Assignor
[the][each]
[the][each, an]
Assignee
[It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]
3
hereunder are several and not joint.]
4
Credit Agreement
     For an agreed consideration, Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to , and Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from , subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of rights and obligations in under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of under the respective facilities identified below (including, without limitation, the Letters of Credit and the Swing Line Loans included in such facilities ) and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender) against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned by Assignor to Assignee pursuant to above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to and above being referred to herein collectively as ""). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by Assignor.
[the][each]
[the Assignee][the respective Assignees]
[the][each]
[the Assignor][the respective Assignors]
[the Assignor's][the respective Assignors']
[its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders]
[the Assignor][the respective Assignors]
5
[
][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)]
[the][any]
[the][any]
clause (i)
clauses (i)
(ii)
[the][an]
Assigned Interest
[the][any]
[the][any]
 
 
[7.     : ]
Trade Date
                    
                    
11
 
 
Effective Date: , 20___[TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
                    
                    
     The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
[Consented to and] Accepted: BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as  Administrative Agent
12
 
 
ANNEX 1 TO ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION
          1. .
Representations and Warranties
          1.1. . Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of Assigned Interest, (ii) Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
[The][Each]
[the][the relevant]
[the][such]
          1.2. . Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under , and of the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type presented by Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase Assigned Interest, (vi) it has independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it
Assignee
[The][Each]
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
[the][the relevant]
[the][such]
[the][such]
Section 6.01
[the][such]
[the][such]
[the][such]
[the][any]
 
shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
          2. . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
[the][each]
[the][the relevant]
[the][relevant]
          3. . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
EXHIBIT G-1
 
EXHIBIT G-2

 
Contacts: Investor Relations/Media Relations
Vulcan Materials Mark Warren/David Donaldson (205) 298-3220
Sard Verbinnen & Co Susan Burns/Maggie Pisacane (212) 687-8080
Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC) announced today that John D. Baker II (59) has been elected a director of the Company. Mr. Baker was formerly President and CEO of Florida Rock Industries, Inc., which was acquired by Vulcan in a transaction that was completed on November 16. In addition to serving on Vulcan's Board, Mr. Baker is a director of Patriot Transportation Holdings, Inc. and Wachovia Corporation.
Birmingham, Ala., November 19, 2007 
"John Baker brings to our board nearly four decades of experience in the construction materials industry," said Don James, Chairman and CEO of Vulcan Materials Company. "We are pleased John has joined our board and we look forward to having the benefit of his counsel as we move forward as a larger, faster growing and more regionally diverse company."
About Vulcan Materials
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nation's foremost producer of construction aggregates and a major producer of other construction materials. For additional information about Vulcan Materials Company, see www.vulcanmaterials.com.

 
Exhibit 99.2
Contacts: Investor Relations/Media Relations
Vulcan Materials Mark Warren/David Donaldson (205) 298-3220
Sard Verbinnen & Co Susan Burns/Maggie Pisacane (212) 687-8080
Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE: VMC) announced today the final results of the elections made by former Florida Rock shareholders as to the form of merger consideration they wish to receive in Vulcan Materials' acquisition of Florida Rock. The transaction closed on November 16, 2007.
Birmingham, AL  November 21, 2007 
The consideration elections were subject to proration so that, in the aggregate, 70% of the Florida Rock shares outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the transaction were converted into the right to receive $67 in cash per share, without interest, and 30% of the Florida Rock shares outstanding immediately prior to the closing of the transaction were converted into the right to receive 0.63 of a share of common stock of Vulcan Materials Company following the closing of the transaction.
Of the approximately 66,692,551 shares of Florida Rock common stock outstanding as of the election deadline of 5:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on November 14, 2007, valid elections were made with respect to 64,316,025 shares (96.4 % of the outstanding shares), of which:
Based on the information above:
 
No fractional shares of Vulcan Materials will be issued. In lieu thereof, former Florida Rock shareholders will receive cash for their fractional share interests based on the $83.31 closing price of Vulcan Materials stock on November 15, 2007 (the last trading day prior to the closing of the transaction).
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nation's foremost producer of construction aggregates and a major producer of other construction materials. For additional information about Vulcan Materials Company, see . Documents and other information related to the transaction can be found at .
About Vulcan Materials
www.vulcanmaterials.com
www.vulcanfloridarock.com
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those associated with general economic and business conditions; changes in interest rates; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; changes in the level of spending for residential and private nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; pricing; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; increasing healthcare costs; the timing and amount of any future payments to be received under the 5CP earn-out contained in the agreement for the divestiture of the Company's Chemicals business; the Company's ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; risks and uncertainties related to the transaction with Florida Rock Industries, Inc. including successfully integrating the operations of Florida Rock and achieving the anticipated cost savings and operational synergies following the closing of the transaction with Florida Rock; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Company's SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and Vulcan Materials assumes no obligation to publicly update such statements.


