FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20080328085740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On or about March 28, 2008, the Registrant plans to make available its Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2007. The Annual Report includes a Letter to Shareholders from Donald M. James, the Registrant's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The letter contains a discussion of EBITDA, or Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization, which is a non-GAAP financial measure, as that term is defined under Regulation G of the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. EBITDA is often utilized by the financial community as one indicator of a company's ability to incur and service debt. In the opinion of management of the Registrant, EBIDTA is an important indicator of the ongoing operations of the Registrant's business. See Exhibit 99.1 for a reconciliation of both net cash provided by operating activities and operating earnings to EBITDA.
The information in Item 7.01 of this Form 8-K and the exhibit attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures
EBITDA Reconciliations
EBITDA is an acronym for Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization. This financial metric is often used by the investment community as one indicator of a company's ability to incur and service debt. EBITDA is not defined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP); thus, it should not be considered as an alternative to net cash provided by operating activities, operating earnings, or any other liquidity or performance measure defined by GAAP.
EBITDA is presented for the convenience of the investment professionals that use the metric in their analysis and to provide the Company's shareholders an understanding of one metric management uses to assess performance. Due to the significant write-up of the assets acquired in the November 2007 acquisition of Florida Rock resulting from the application of SFAS 141, , Vulcan's management internally uses EBITDA to assess the operating performance of the acquired Florida Rock assets and consolidated company. Vulcan's management does not use this metric as a measure to allocate resources internally.
Business Combinations


