FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20080805193024.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): August 5, 2008
VULCAN MATERIALS COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(205) 298-3000
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The Registrant's earnings release dated August 5, 2008, regarding its second quarter financial results is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Vulcan Announces Second Quarter Results
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC) today announced second quarter net sales of $966 million, as compared to $808 million in the second quarter of 2007. Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) were $339 million in the second quarter of 2008, as compared to $281 million in the prior year. Operating earnings were $238 million in the second quarter of 2008 versus $217 million in the prior year. Net earnings per diluted share were $1.27 in the second quarter of 2008 compared to $1.45 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2007. The current years second quarter results include net earnings per diluted share of $0.34 referable to the sale of quarry sites divested as a condition for approval by the Department of Justice of the Florida Rock acquisition.
Don James, Vulcans Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, We are focused on improving operating efficiency and controlling costs during this period of weaker demand for our products. Our efforts to control selling, administrative and general expenses and operating costs lessened the earnings impact of lower volumes and the effects of sharp increases in energy-related costs. On a comparable basis, our selling, administrative and general expenses in the second quarter were approximately 16 percent lower than the second quarter of 2007. This focus on cost control will make us a stronger company and improve our earnings leverage when volumes begin to recover. Additionally, we reduced inventory levels of aggregates in the second quarter by reducing operating hours. This planned action reduced second quarter earnings but increased cash generation and positions us for improved performance efficiencies going forward.
Pricing for our products remained strong and helped to mitigate the earnings effects of lower volumes and higher energy-related costs. The average freight-adjusted unit price for aggregates in the second quarter increased 8 percent from the prior years second quarter. The unit price for diesel fuel increased 70 percent from the prior years second quarter reducing net earnings approximately $0.09 per diluted share. The unit price for liquid asphalt increased 60 percent from the prior years second quarter, which reduced net earnings approximately $0.12 per diluted share.
During the first half of 2008, we acquired four quarries in California, two in Virginia and one in Illinois as well as reserves adjacent to existing quarries in Texas and North Carolina. Each of these acquisitions helped us defer income taxes arising from the sale of quarry sites required by the Justice Department as part of the Florida Rock acquisition. Taken together, these transactions added approximately 210 million tons of aggregates reserves net of the Justice Departments required divestitures. Following these transactions, we control approximately 13 billion tons of proven and probable reserves in markets where reserves are limited and where demand is expected to grow at above-average rates for many years to come.
The following table summarizes the major changes in EBITDA and earnings per share from last years second quarter:
Operating Results
Aggregates revenues increased from last years level as improved pricing and the inclusion of results from former Florida Rock operations offset the effects of lower volumes in most markets. Total aggregates unit shipments declined 6 percent compared to the second quarter of 2007. The average freight-adjusted sales price for aggregates increased 8 percent. Improvements in aggregates pricing and the inclusion of earnings from former Florida Rock operations partially offset the earnings effects from the decline in legacy shipments and sharply higher costs for diesel fuel. Most of our geographic markets reported double-digit declines in aggregates volumes except for markets in Texas and along the Central Gulf Coast where sales volumes increased versus the prior years second quarter.
Cost control initiatives in the second quarter improved operating results. Excluding energy-related costs, unit variable production costs in legacy Vulcan aggregates operations were relatively flat while cash fixed costs were approximately 14 percent lower than in the prior years second quarter. However, average total unit cost of sales for aggregates increased from the prior years second quarter due mostly to higher energy-related costs, the effects of lower production levels, and the inclusion of former Florida Rock operations, which still have relatively higher production costs.
Shipments of asphalt mix increased 4 percent while concrete shipments increased significantly due to the addition of Florida Rock operations. Asphalt mix prices increased approximately 8 percent from the prior years second quarter. Asphalt earnings decreased due principally to higher costs for liquid asphalt. Concrete earnings increased as the addition of Florida Rock concrete operations more than offset the effects of lower volumes from legacy operations.
Cement earnings reflect the inclusion of Florida Rock cement operations for the current years second quarter. On a sequential basis, second quarter cement earnings were lower than the first quarters level due principally to a planned maintenance outage in the quarter.
Selling, administrative and general expenses increased from the prior years second quarter due to the addition of the Florida Rock businesses and a $6 million expense for the fair market value of donated real estate. On a comparable basis, selling, administrative and general expenses decreased $11 million, or approximately 16 percent, in the second quarter as compared to the prior year.
Interest expense increased $30 million from the prior years second quarter due primarily to debt incurred for the acquisition of Florida Rock. In late June, we completed the planned issuance of long-term debt financing related to the Florida Rock transaction. As a result, we added $950 million of new long-term debt and reduced short-term debt by a commensurate amount. Debt reduction and achieving target debt ratios remain a priority use of cash flows.
All results are unaudited.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for 2008, Mr. James stated, Our earnings outlook reflects a prolonged downturn in residential construction, weakness in non-residential and highway construction activity and energy-related costs remaining at the current high levels. Leading indicators such as contract awards weakened in most construction categories in the second quarter. We now estimate full year aggregates shipments, including Florida Rock operations for the full year, to be down 2 to 5 percent versus the prior year.
During this time of weaker demand, our focus is on those aspects of the business we can control. During the first half of this year, we have reduced operating hours, maintained relatively flat unit variable production costs excluding energy-related costs and decreased cash fixed costs. We will continue aggressively managing costs in all areas. We expect higher selling prices for our products to help offset the earnings effects of lower volumes and higher energy-related costs. For aggregates, we continue to expect full year price improvement of approximately 8 percent.
We now expect consolidated EBITDA for 2008 to be in the range of $1.0 to $1.1 billion. Consolidated earnings from continuing operations should be in the range of $2.85 to $3.25 per diluted share. Our 2008 earnings outlook includes $74 million of EBITDA and $0.34 of earnings per diluted share resulting from the sale of quarry sites related to the acquisition of Florida Rock.
Conference Call
Vulcan will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT on August 6, 2008. Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling 888.680.0879 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start. International participants can dial 617.213.4856. The access code is 56899483. A live webcast will be available via the Internet through Vulcan's home page at . The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through August 13, 2008.
www.vulcanmaterials.com
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those associated with general economic and business conditions; changes in interest rates; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; changes in the level of spending for residential and private nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; the impact of future regulatory or legislative actions; the outcome of pending legal proceedings; pricing; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; increasing healthcare costs; the timing and amount of any future payments to be received under the 5CP earn-out contained in the agreement for the divestiture of the Company's Chemicals business; the Companys ability to secure and permit aggregates reserves in strategically located areas; the Companys ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; risks and uncertainties related to the Companys acquisition of Florida Rock Industries, Inc., including the ability to successfully integrate its operations and to achieve the anticipated cost savings and operational synergies; the possibility that business may suffer because managements attention is diverted to integration concerns; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Companys SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and Vulcan assumes no obligation to publicly update such statements.
CONTACT: Mark Warren, 205-298-3220 or David Donaldson, 205-298-3220
Vulcan Materials Company
Investor Contact:
Media Contact:


