FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20081105183353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 5, 2008
VULCAN MATERIALS COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(
(205) 298-3000
Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
            The Registrant's earnings release dated November 5, 2008, regarding its third quarter financial results is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Vulcan Announces Third Quarter Results
Effective cost management and solid cash generation despite weak demand
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 5, 2008--Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC) announced results today for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2008.
Third Quarter Highlights and Comparisons with the Prior Year
Net sales were $959 million, an increase of 13 percent.
Aggregates shipments declined 13 percent.
The average selling price for aggregates increased approximately 6 percent with a less favorable regional and product mix somewhat reducing the effect of even greater price increases in many markets.
Increases in energy-related costs reduced earnings approximately $0.38 per diluted share.
Excluding energy-related costs, unit variable production costs for legacy Vulcan aggregates operations were slightly lower than the prior year.
Cash fixed costs for legacy Vulcan aggregates operations declined 10 percent.
Asphalt earnings were off sharply due primarily to a 106 percent increase in the cost to purchase liquid asphalt.
Selling, administrative and general expenses for legacy Vulcan operations declined 11 percent.
EBITDA was $223 million versus $279 million in the prior year.
Net earnings per diluted share were $0.53 compared with $1.38 per diluted share.
Commenting for the Company, Don James, Vulcans Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, In a period of financial and economic turmoil that is unprecedented in its nature if not its severity, we continued to achieve solid results in key areas of the business that further position us for an outstanding future when the economic recovery begins. The external factors affecting our industry are well known: turmoil in the financial markets severely constraining the availability of credit and weakening construction activity that was already soft; costs for petroleum-based products such as diesel fuel and liquid asphalt soaring to record levels thus burdening production costs for our products; and hurricanes and severe rains affecting construction activity in the Central Gulf Coast, Texas, Florida, the upper Midwest and the Mid-Atlantic. Texas and the Central Gulf Coast have previously been experiencing strong demand due to large industrial projects.
We are addressing these challenges by aggressively managing costs and by pricing our products to reflect their great value in the attractive markets we serve. We are highly focused on preserving our profitability during this period of weak demand while improving our earnings leverage. We continued during the third quarter to reduce operating hours, streamline our work force, decrease operating costs and improve production efficiencies in the face of a sharp decline in demand for our products. Because of these actions, the cash earnings generated on each ton of aggregates sold are higher this year than in the prior years third quarter or year-to-date and are more than 40 percent higher than at the peak of demand in 2005.
Operating Results Commentary
According to Mr. James, Our employees continue to respond effectively to further weakness in demand for our products. Employee initiatives in the third quarter lessened the earnings impact of lower volumes and the effects of steep increases in energy-related costs. With respect to aggregates pricing, which increased 6 percent from the prior years third quarter, many Vulcan-served markets realized double-digit growth in average unit prices, even in the face of continued declines in shipments in most Vulcan-served markets compared with the third quarter of 2007.
While periods of weak demand are challenging for any industry, production levels in our aggregates business can be adjusted efficiently to meet changes in demand. During the third quarter, we continued to rationalize production and reduce operating hours in response to weaker demand. As a result, production tons per work-hour improved versus the prior year. Excluding energy-related costs, variable production cost per ton in Vulcans legacy aggregates operations decreased slightly from the prior years third quarter. The unit price for diesel fuel increased 51 percent from the prior years third quarter, reducing net earnings approximately $0.08 per diluted share.
Asphalt earnings in the third quarter were adversely affected by higher costs for liquid asphalt along with lower sales volume. The average selling price for asphalt mix increased 18 percent from the prior years third quarter, but was offset by a 106 percent increase in the unit cost for purchased liquid asphalt. The increase in the unit cost for liquid asphalt reduced net earnings by approximately $0.25 per diluted share. Concrete earnings increased slightly from the prior years third quarter with the addition of the Florida Rocks concrete operations.
Cement earnings reflect the inclusion of Florida Rocks cement operations for the current year. On a sequential basis, third quarter cement earnings were lower than the second quarters level due to higher energy costs and the earnings effect of two production outages as a result of lower demand.
Selling, administrative and general expenses (SAG) in the third quarter increased $10 million from the prior years third quarter due to the Florida Rock acquisition. Excluding the Florida Rock acquisition, SAG expenses in legacy Vulcan operations declined 11 percent from the prior years third quarter.
Interest expense increased $38 million from the prior years third quarter due primarily to debt incurred for the acquisition of Florida Rock.
All results are unaudited.
Outlook Highlights and Commentary
Tighter lending standards in the credit markets and higher costs for energy-related construction inputs are continuing to hamper construction activity.
Leading indicators such as contract awards for construction spending in non-housing related end markets are continuing to slow.
Full year aggregates pricing is expected to increase 7 percent from the prior year.
Full year aggregates shipments are expected to decline 9 to 10 percent from the prior year.
Diesel fuel and liquid asphalt prices have been declining since the end of the third quarter.
Sharp focus on cash generation and maximizing liquidity will continue.
Full year earnings of $2.25 to $2.45 per diluted share are projected with another good year of cash flow generation despite challenging market conditions.
Commenting on the Companys outlook for the remainder of 2008, Mr. James stated, The lack of liquidity in the credit markets and the volatility in the financial markets have weakened construction demand and created a great deal of uncertainty in projecting demand for our products. Residential construction has continued to weaken, although from a lower base, with a prolonged downturn now appearing likely. Leading indicators such as contract awards weakened in the third quarter and point towards reduced nonresidential and highway construction activity in the fourth quarter and into 2009. In some Vulcan-served markets, large industrial projects are, to some extent, mitigating the effects of slowing demand from commercial and office construction.
We will continue to operate the business consistent with the reduced levels of demand with an emphasis on cost control and productivity improvement. In the fourth quarter, we expect higher selling prices for our products to help offset the earnings effects of lower volumes. The average price paid for diesel fuel declined every month in the third quarter on a sequential basis and we expect prices to decline further in the fourth quarter. Additionally, asphalt earnings should benefit from lower prices paid for liquid asphalt in the fourth quarter. The average selling price for asphalt mix should increase from the third quarter to the fourth quarter as lower-priced sales orders in the backlog are replaced with more recent higher-priced orders.
For the current year, we now expect full year earnings from continuing operations of $2.25 to $2.45 per diluted share, including $0.34 recorded in the second quarter from the sale of quarry sites related to the acquisition of Florida Rock.
We expect to reduce total debt by $150 million during the fourth quarter. The $150 million reduction in debt will be achieved through the use of approximately $100 million of cash that was on the balance sheet as of September 30 and through operating cash flows in the fourth quarter. Debt reduction and achieving target debt ratios remain a priority use of cash flows. We have taken a hard look at capital spending and have identified strategic projects where spending can be deferred until demand begins to recover. As a result, we now expect capital spending for 2008 to be approximately $425 million, down from prior guidance of approximately $450 million and capital spending in 2009 to be approximately $200 million.
Looking ahead, we believe that federal government initiatives to stabilize and stimulate the U.S. economy should begin to have some positive impact. The U.S. Congress, strongly encouraged by many state and local governments and other important stakeholders, is now evaluating a new economic stimulus package that includes increased spending for highways and infrastructure. The benefits of economic stimulus packages that include infrastructure funding are two-fold: in the short-term they create jobs and help sustain our economy and in the long-term they enhance our nations economic productivity by improving our aging infrastructure and reducing congestion. Key Vulcan-served states such as California have begun to address aging infrastructure with increased construction spending. We are optimistic that other key states, such as Florida, where the governor has recently announced an initiative to accelerate the start dates on $1.4 billion in road construction, will also recognize the many economic benefits of such programs.
Conference Call
Vulcan will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST on November 6, 2008. Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling 888.713.4218 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start. International participants can dial 617.213.4870. The access code is 52175866. A live webcast will be available via the Internet through Vulcan's home page at . The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through November 13, 2008.
www.vulcanmaterials.com
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those associated with general economic and business conditions; changes in interest rates; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; changes in the level of spending for residential and private nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; the impact of future regulatory or legislative actions; the outcome of pending legal proceedings; pricing; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; increasing healthcare costs; the timing and amount of any future payments to be received under the 5CP earn-out contained in the agreement for the divestiture of the Company's Chemicals business; the Companys ability to secure and permit aggregates reserves in strategically located areas; the Companys ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; risks and uncertainties related to the Companys acquisition of Florida Rock Industries, Inc., including the ability to successfully integrate its operations and to achieve the anticipated cost savings and operational synergies; the possibility that business may suffer because managements attention is diverted to integration concerns; the impact of the global financial crisis on our business and financial condition and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Companys SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and Vulcan assumes no obligation to publicly update such statements.
CONTACT: Vulcan Materials Company Investor Contact: Mark Warren, 205-298-3220 or Media Contact: David Donaldson, 205-298-3220


