FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20080506095450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 5, 2008
VULCAN MATERIALS COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(205) 298-3000
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Vulcan Announces First Quarter Results
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC) today announced first quarter net sales were $772 million compared to $630 million in the first quarter of 2007. Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) were $160 million in the first quarter as compared to $199 million in the prior year. Operating earnings were $67 million in the first quarter of 2008 compared to $137 million in the prior year. The prior years results included EBITDA and operating earnings of $43 million from a gain on sale of real estate in California. Net earnings per diluted share were $0.13 in the first quarter of 2008 as compared to $0.91 per diluted share for the first quarter of 2007. The 2007 result included $0.26 per share referable to the California real estate sale.
Don James, Vulcans Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, Volumes in the quarter were adversely affected by the continuing sharp downturn in residential construction and less favorable weather in certain of our markets. Continued growth in construction activity related to major industrial projects in Texas and along the Gulf Coast mitigated some of this weakness. Pricing for our products remained resilient and helped offset higher energy-related costs and higher noncash charges for depreciation, depletion and amortization, as well as increased interest expense. Approximately one-fourth of the annual expenses for depreciation and interest related to the Florida Rock acquisition was absorbed in the first quarter, which is always the seasonally weakest quarter of the year.
Integration of the former Florida Rock operations is essentially complete. Identified major one-time synergies have been realized and, by the end of the year, we will be on track to achieve the ongoing annual synergies we anticipated with the acquisition of Florida Rock. We have completed the divestitures required by the Department of Justice. As previously announced, we received both cash and strategic assets in three separate transactions. The cash portion totaled $214 million subject to certain post-closing adjustments. We also received two quarries in Virginia, one quarry in California, a quarry site in Texas, and fee simple ownership of a quarry-leasehold in North Carolina. In the second quarter, we will report an after-tax gain of approximately $0.41 per diluted share referable to the divested assets that were formerly owned by Vulcan prior to the acquisition of Florida Rock. After the divestitures, we control nearly 13 billion tons or an average of 44 years of reserves in highly attractive markets where reserves are limited and where demand for aggregates is expected to grow at above-average rates for many years to come.
The following table summarizes the major changes in EBITDA and Earnings Per Share from last years first quarter:
Operating Results
Aggregates sales approximated last years level as the effect of lower volumes from legacy operations offset improved pricing and the inclusion of sales from former Florida Rock operations. Improvements in aggregates pricing and earnings from the former Florida Rock operations partially offset the earnings effect from the decline in legacy shipments and sharply higher costs for diesel fuel. Total aggregates shipments declined 4 percent compared to the first quarter of 2007. The average sales price for aggregates increased approximately 9 percent. Cost reduction efforts softened the impact of sharp cost increases for energy and the effects of significant declines in production levels. Excluding the effects of higher energy costs and lower production volumes, unit costs of sales for aggregates were flat year-over-year.
Shipments of asphalt mix declined approximately 7 percent while concrete shipments increased due to the addition of Florida Rock operations. Asphalt earnings decreased due principally to increased costs for liquid asphalt and internally-supplied aggregates, as well as the effects of lower sales volumes. Concrete earnings increased as the impact of the addition of Florida Rock operations more than offset the effects of higher costs for cement and internally-supplied aggregates.
Cement earnings reflect the inclusion of the results of Florida Rocks cement operations for the current years first quarter.
Unit costs for diesel fuel increased 53 percent from the prior year and lowered operating earnings approximately $12 million before taxes.
Selling, administrative and general expenses increased $18 million as a $3 million or 3 percent decrease in legacy Vulcan selling, administrative and general expenses was offset by the effect of the addition of the Florida Rock businesses. The increase in interest expense is attributable primarily to debt incurred for the acquisition of Florida Rock.
Depreciation, depletion, accretion and amortization expense increased by $35 million to $95 million versus the prior years first quarter. Assets acquired in the Florida Rock acquisition accounted for $32 million of the increase, including approximately $11 million attributable to the write-up of Florida Rocks assets to fair market values pursuant to purchase accounting.
All results are unaudited.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for 2008, Mr. James stated, Our current earnings outlook for 2008 is subject to a great deal of uncertainty with respect to the economy and financial markets. Our outlook reflects a prolonged and severe downturn in residential construction, weaker contract awards in other end markets, the impact of higher costs for construction inputs and the effect of increasing energy-related costs. In the first quarter, we were able to reduce operating hours and decrease cash fixed costs. We will continue to evaluate costs in all areas in order to ensure that they are aggressively managed in light of the weaker demand outlook. We continue to expect improved pricing for our products to help offset these higher costs.
Leading indicators such as contract awards indicate a continuation of the significant decline in residential construction as well as growing weakness in other end markets. Higher costs for construction inputs, including steel and energy-related costs such as liquid asphalt and diesel fuel, are also having an adverse impact on the level of construction activity. We now estimate full year aggregates shipments, including Florida Rock operations for the full year, to be flat to up 4 percent versus the prior year.
A market environment that recognizes the high cost of replacing reserves has been instrumental in helping us to achieve price improvement despite lower volumes. Additionally, aggregates production continues to be affected by increasing costs for energy and steel-based materials. The pricing momentum we achieved in 2005 and 2006 continued in 2007. In 2008, we believe this momentum will continue resulting in price improvement of approximately 8 percent in spite of relatively lower shipments in higher priced markets. Overall, we expect a 5 to 10 percent increase in aggregates segment earnings.
Asphalt mix and concrete segment earnings should be 10 to 20 percent higher in 2008 due to the inclusion of earnings from Florida Rocks concrete business. Total concrete volumes for the Company in 2008 should be in the range of 7.0 to 7.3 million cubic yards. The average unit prices for asphalt mix and concrete should increase and partially offset higher costs for key raw materials, including liquid asphalt, cement and internally-supplied aggregates.
We now expect consolidated EBITDA for 2008 to be in the range of $1.170 to $1.260 billion. Consolidated earnings from continuing operations should be in the range of $3.85 to $4.35 per diluted share. Our 2008 earnings outlook includes $76 million of EBITDA and $0.41 of earnings per diluted share due to gains resulting from the divestiture of two properties that were owned by Vulcan prior to the acquisition of Florida Rock.
Conference Call
Vulcan will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. CDT on May 6, 2008. Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling 888.713.4216 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start. International participants can dial 617.213.4868. The access code is 45191811. A live webcast will be available via the Internet through Vulcan's home page at . The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through May 13, 2008.
www.vulcanmaterials.com
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates and a major producer of asphalt and concrete.
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those associated with general economic and business conditions; changes in interest rates; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; changes in the level of spending for residential and private nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; the impact of future regulatory or legislative actions; the outcome of pending legal proceedings; pricing; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; increasing healthcare costs; the timing and amount of any future payments to be received under the 5CP earn-out contained in the agreement for the divestiture of the Company's Chemicals business; the Companys ability to secure and permit aggregates reserves in strategically located areas; the Companys ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; risks and uncertainties related to the Companys acquisition of Florida Rock Industries, Inc., including the ability to successfully integrate its operations and to achieve the anticipated cost savings and operational synergies; the possibility that business may suffer because managements attention is diverted to integration concerns; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Companys SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and Vulcan assumes no obligation to publicly update such statements.
CONTACT: Vulcan Materials Company Investor Contact: Mark Warren,205-298-3220 or Media Contact: David Donaldson, 205-298-3220


