FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20080214114306.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 13, 2008
VULCAN MATERIALS COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(205) 298-3000
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02     Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Vulcan Announces Record Operating Earnings for 2007
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC) today announced that 2007 full year sales, net cash provided by operating activities, operating earnings and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) were at record levels. Consolidated net sales were $3.1 billion in 2007, an increase of 2 percent from the prior years level. Net cash provided by operating activities of $708 million increased 22% from the 2006 level of $579 million. Operating earnings for 2007 were $714 million, up 3 percent from the 2006 level of $695 million. EBITDA in 2007 was $982 million, up 3 percent from the $950 million reported in 2006.
Don James, Vulcans Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, Our business generated improved results in 2007 despite weaker demand for our products. The sharp downturn in residential construction activity was only partially offset by increased levels of highway construction and nonresidential construction. The pricing environment for aggregates remained favorable during 2007. The average selling price for aggregates increased 13 percent in 2007 despite a 9 percent decline in aggregates shipments.
The past year also was highlighted by Vulcans purchase of Florida Rock Industries on November 16, 2007. This acquisition, which includes significant aggregates reserves in attractive markets, continues our long-term strategy to position our company in markets where reserves are limited and where demand for aggregates is expected to grow at above-average rates. The short time that Vulcan owned Florida Rock during this seasonally weak period, coupled with the one-time earnings effects from the transaction, resulted in the acquisition providing limited contribution to 2007 EBITDA. Integration of this acquisition is proceeding smoothly and according to our plans.
Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $4.66 in 2007, including an estimated $0.32 per share reduction referable to the Florida Rock acquisition. Exclusive of Florida Rock, 2007 diluted earnings per share of $4.98 increased approximately 4 percent from the 2006 level of $4.81 per share. Earnings from continuing operations in 2006 included a gain of $0.17 per share resulting from an increase in the carrying value of the ECU earn-out. The current years corresponding gain from the ECU earn-out was $0.01 per share.
Legacy Vulcan Operating Results - Full Year
Sales from legacy Vulcan operations declined slightly as lower shipments were substantially offset by higher prices for all major products. Legacy aggregates earnings increased due to higher prices. Unit operating costs for aggregates produced at legacy Vulcan operations increased in 2007 due principally to the effects of higher depreciation expense referable to recently completed capital projects coupled with a 10 percent reduction in production. Additionally, unit costs for energy (diesel fuel and electric power) increased by approximately 7 percent. The earnings effect in 2007 of higher prices for diesel fuel on legacy Vulcan results was approximately $12 million before taxes, or $0.07 per share.
Shipments of asphalt and concrete declined 9 percent and 30 percent, respectively. Increased prices more than offset the effects of lower shipments resulting in sharply higher asphalt earnings. Concrete earnings declined sharply as a 6 percent increase in prices did not offset the effects of the decline in volume.
Legacy Vulcan Operating Results
 Fourth Quarter
Fourth quarter 2007 construction activity declined in most markets, principally reflecting the downturn in residential construction. Accordingly, aggregates shipments declined 12 percent as compared to the fourth quarter of 2006. The average selling price for aggregates increased 9 percent in the fourth quarter. The year-over-year increase in pricing for aggregates was dampened by relatively greater volumes from lower-priced markets. Unit operating costs for aggregates increased mainly due to higher energy costs and the effects of lower production levels as compared to the prior years fourth quarter. Unit costs for diesel fuel increased 41 percent from the prior year, lowering operating earnings approximately $10 million before taxes.
Asphalt earnings declined slightly from the prior years fourth quarter. Asphalt shipments were 8 percent lower than the same period in 2006. Asphalt prices increased 5 percent, offsetting most of the earnings effect of lower shipments. Concrete shipments, tied more closely to residential construction than are aggregates shipments, declined 24 percent in the fourth quarter while prices increased just over 1 percent. Concrete earnings declined sharply in the quarter primarily as a result of lower shipments.
Florida Rock
Commenting further on the Florida Rock acquisition, Mr. James stated, Historical comparisons are difficult because we have rapidly integrated the businesses and Vulcans 2007 results include Florida Rock only for a six week year-end stub period. Generally, this period is characterized by seasonally low sales levels while the impact on earnings per share for depreciation, interest, overhead and shares outstanding during this stub period is essentially the same as in other calendar periods of comparable length.
The 2007 earnings impact of Florida Rock includes operating results for the stub period that Vulcan owned the business, interest expense associated with the financing of the transaction, additional shares issued as part of the transaction, one-time expenses associated with executing the transaction and integrating the businesses, and depreciation associated with the write-up of assets to fair market value due to purchasing accounting. Specifically, 2007 results include approximately $0.13 per share due to one-time transaction related items, $0.12 per share related to higher interest expense attributable to the additional debt incurred to fund the transaction, and $0.07 per share due to the effect of additional shares issued in conjunction with the transaction. Of the $0.32 per share dilution for the full year, approximately $0.28 was incurred in the fourth quarter.
All results are unaudited.
Outlook
Commenting on the outlook for 2008, Mr. James stated, While market conditions remain uncertain, we expect another year of record sales and EBITDA for Vulcan. The broad use of aggregates in construction and the multi-year nature of highway and infrastructure projects should help offset continued weakness in residential construction and some softening in certain categories of private nonresidential construction.
Leading indicators such as contract awards for highways and nonresidential construction in Vulcan-served markets continue to grow and lead other U.S. markets. Some of this increased spending is being offset by higher costs for construction inputs including steel and energy-related costs such as liquid asphalt and diesel fuel. However, we expect aggregates demand in our markets for public infrastructure projects and for nonresidential construction to increase in 2008. The greatest uncertainty remains in the residential construction sector, where 2008 likely will be another year of double-digit declines in activity. Collectively, we expect 2008 aggregates shipments for legacy Vulcan to be flat to down 2 percent versus the prior year. Including the Florida Rock operations for a full year should result in an increase in aggregates shipments of 9 to 12 percent.
A pricing environment that recognizes the high cost of replacing reserves has been instrumental for price improvement despite lower volumes. The pricing momentum we achieved in 2005 and 2006 continued in 2007. In 2008, we believe this momentum will continue resulting in price improvement of 8 to 10 percent.
Earnings for the asphalt and concrete segment should be higher in 2008 due to the Florida Rock acquisition. In legacy operations, the average unit price for asphalt and concrete should increase and partially offset cost increases due to lower sales volumes and higher prices for key raw materials, including liquid asphalt, cement and internally-supplied aggregates. Asphalt margins should approximate the prior year while legacy concrete margins should be slightly lower. Total concrete volumes for the combined company in 2008 should be in the range of 7.0 to 7.3 million cubic yards.
As a result, we expect consolidated EBITDA for 2008 to be in the range of $1.375 to $1.425 billion. Consolidated earnings from continuing operations should be in the range of $4.75 to $5.15 per diluted share.
During the first quarter of 2008, we expect to complete the divestiture required by the Department of Justice of nine sites in a series of transactions. We currently expect these divestitures to be a combination of cash sales and asset swaps. Our 2008 earnings outlook includes $85 to $90 million of EBITDA and $0.47 to $0.50 per share of diluted earnings referable to the transactions. The expected EBITDA and per share earnings incorporate gains related to the two divestiture properties owned by legacy Vulcan, earnings from the divestiture properties prior to their sale, post divestiture earnings from swap properties received in exchange for some of the divested properties and lower interest expense arising from the use of cash proceeds to reduce debt.
Conference Call
Vulcan will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. CST on February 14, 2008. Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling (888) 680-0869 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start. International participants can dial (617) 213-4854. The access code is 43648415. A live webcast will be available via the Internet through Vulcan's home page at vulcanmaterials.com. The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through February 21, 2008.
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates and a major producer of asphalt and concrete.
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those associated with general economic and business conditions; changes in interest rates; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; changes in the level of spending for residential and private nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; pricing; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; increasing healthcare costs; the timing and amount of any future payments to be received under the 5CP earn-out contained in the agreement for the divestiture of the Company's Chemicals business; the Companys ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; risks and uncertainties related to the Companys recent acquisition of Florida Rock Industries, Inc., including the ability to successfully integrate its operations and to achieve the anticipated cost savings and operational synergies; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Companys SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and Vulcan assumes no obligation to publicly update such statements.
CONTACT: Vulcan Materials Company Investor Contact: Mark Warren, 205-298-3220 OR Media Contact: David Donaldson, 205-298-3220


