FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20090504193329.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 4, 2009
VULCAN MATERIALS COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(
(205) 298-3000
Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Vulcan Announces First Quarter Results
Continuing Cost Management Actions Help Offset Effects of Demand Decline
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 4, 2009--Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC) announced results today for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009.
First Quarter Summary and Comparisons with the Prior Year
Earnings from continuing operations were a loss of $32 million, or $0.29 per diluted share.
Aggregates shipments declined 30 percent, reducing earnings $0.58 per diluted share.
Aggregates pricing increased 2 percent overall, with wide variations across markets.
Aggregates unit variable production costs were flat and cash fixed costs decreased 21 percent.
Asphalt material margins recovered from the depressed prior year levels.
Selling, administrative and general expenses declined 14 percent.
EBITDA was $97 million versus $160 million in the prior year.
Cash earnings were $70 million versus $112 million in the prior year.
Commenting for the Company, Don James, Vulcans Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, The sharp decline in demand for construction materials is unprecedented. In response to continuing market weakness and the corresponding reduced demand, we remain focused on reducing costs, improving productivity and maintaining unit variable margins. These actions helped mitigate the earnings effect of lower sales volumes. In contrast to typical seasonal operating plans, during the first quarter we reduced production and inventory levels. These decisions penalized first quarter earnings but improved cash generation and better positioned us for improved operating performance going forward.
We remain highly focused on cash generation and improving our liquidity during this period of weak demand for our products. Critical evaluation of the strategic nature and timing of all capital projects led us to reduce spending on capital projects to $26 million from the $109 million spent in the first quarter of the prior year. We improved our liquidity through an issuance in early February of $400 million of long-term debt. Proceeds of this debt offering reduced short-term bank borrowings, thereby freeing up a like amount of liquidity under our lines of credit. Overall, in the first quarter, we reduced total debt by $33 million. In April, we utilized $250 million of the liquidity under our bank lines of credit to pay off $250 million of 10-year notes as scheduled.
First Quarter Operating Results Commentary
First quarter earnings for aggregates declined as lower shipments more than offset the earnings effect from price improvement, lower unit costs for diesel fuel and prudent cost control. Aggregates shipments were sharply lower compared to the prior years first quarter in all markets except the Central Gulf Coast where large energy-related and industrial construction projects have sustained aggregates demand. The decrease in aggregates volumes reduced EBITDA by approximately $84 million versus the prior year. The overall increase in the average selling price for aggregates reflects wide variations across Vulcan-served markets. Many major markets realized price improvement from the prior year above the 2 percent average, while markets in the far west reported year-over-year declines in average selling price. Excluding these western markets, aggregates pricing improved 4 percent from the prior years first quarter. Aggregates pricing in western markets was lower due to a substantial increase in sales of lower priced products, including fill material and railroad ballast. Excluding the sales of lower priced products, aggregates pricing in western markets decreased 3 percent as compared to the prior years first quarter due to lower demand.
Rationalizing production, reducing operating hours, streamlining the work force and effectively managing spending levels reduced aggregates costs versus the prior year. Aggregates unit variable production costs were flat compared to the prior years first quarter and cash fixed costs declined 21 percent from the prior year. The unit price for diesel fuel decreased 47 percent from the prior years first quarter, increasing earnings $0.07 per diluted share.
Asphalt earnings in the first quarter were higher than last years first quarter as material margins recovered to more normal levels reflecting recent moderation in the cost of liquid asphalt. Asphalt sales volumes decreased 27 percent from the prior years first quarter level. Concrete earnings decreased from the prior years first quarter due to weaker demand.
Cement earnings were a slight loss in the first quarter due to weak demand and lower production levels.
Selling, administrative and general expenses in the first quarter decreased $13 million from the prior years first quarter. Cost-saving actions implemented across the Company to align spending levels with weak product demand more than offset project costs related to the replacement of legacy IT systems and higher severance costs. Performance-based compensation accruals as well as employee expenses, including salaries and benefits, were lower compared with the prior year. Employment levels across the Company are down 14 percent from the prior year.
All results are unaudited.
Outlook Highlights and Commentary
Full year aggregates pricing is expected to increase 4 to 6 percent from the prior year.
Full year aggregates shipments, including some projected incremental demand starting in the second half of 2009 from the economic stimulus plan, are expected to decline 10 to 15 percent from 2008 levels.
Diesel fuel and liquid asphalt prices will be lower for the full year 2009 compared to the average price in 2008.
Our focus on cash generation and liquidity will continue.
Commenting on the Companys outlook for 2009, Mr. James stated, Broad-based economic weakness and extremely tight credit markets continue to hamper private construction activity and add to uncertainty in projecting demand for our products. Our revised volume outlook for the full year assumes lower aggregates demand in all major end markets, offset somewhat by incremental demand starting in the second half of 2009 from the first of the economic stimulus projects.
The Economic Stimulus Plan passed by Congress and signed by the President in February includes an estimated $50 to $60 billion of much-needed direct funding for transportation and other infrastructure-related projects that will help offset projected weakness in private construction activity. Transportation projects are the most aggregates-intensive form of construction. For every billion dollars spent on highways, we estimate that approximately 14 million tons of aggregates are consumed, assuming a normal mix of highway projects. That same billion dollars spent on highways would also consume, on average, 4 to 5 million tons of asphalt mix and 150,000 cubic yards of concrete. Vulcan-served states will receive 60 percent of the $28 billion in funds for highway and bridge projects.
Early reports show that state and local departments of transportation are making good progress using stimulus dollars to make highway investments and create jobs in the U.S. economy. In fact, most Vulcan-served states have obligated some portion of their highway stimulus funds in the past two months. Additionally, we expect highway bidding activity in our states to increase both in number of projects and the frequency of bid lettings in order to meet the 120-day deadline for each state to obligate at least 50 percent of its highway stimulus funding.
Other non-building infrastructure that is funded by the stimulus plan such as water and environmental projects also consume large quantities of aggregates. For every billion dollars spent on water and environmental infrastructure, we estimate 5 to 6 million tons of aggregates could be consumed along with 300,000 tons of asphalt mix and 200,000 cubic yards of concrete. Building-related infrastructure consumes 2 to 3 million tons of aggregates along with 200,000 tons of asphalt mix and 700,000 cubic yards of concrete for every billion dollars spent.
We are also encouraged by the success to date of the Build America Bonds authorized in the Economic Stimulus Plan. These bonds can be used to finance construction by issuers who have traditionally used tax-free bonds. Build America Bonds have already been issued for construction projects in California and Virginia.
Our available production capacity and improved cost structure position Vulcan to participate efficiently and effectively in the supply of material for economic stimulus projects. Key Vulcan-served states such as California, Florida and Texas will receive the largest percentage of highway funding under the stimulus plan and are likely targets for above-average funding for other stimulus spending for infrastructure because of their high growth and large population base. Vulcan sales in these three states should benefit from our aggregates-focused strategy that is complemented by our asphalt and concrete operations.
We expect higher selling prices for our products in 2009 to help offset the earnings effects of lower volumes. The average selling price for asphalt mix in 2009 should increase from 2008 as shipments reflect sales orders that include recovery of the sharp increase in liquid asphalt cost that peaked in late 2008.
Debt reduction and achieving target debt ratios remain a priority use of cash flows. We expect to reduce total debt by $200 million during 2009. For the full year 2009, we expect capital spending to be approximately $200 million, down sharply from the $354 million spent in 2008.
Conference Call
Vulcan will host a conference call at 9:00 a.m. CDT on May 5, 2009. Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling 888.713.4215 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start. International participants can dial 617.213.4867. The access code is 36574572. A live webcast will be available via the Internet through Vulcan's home page at . The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through May 7, 2009.
www.vulcanmaterials.com
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 Index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those associated with general economic and business conditions; changes in interest rates; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; changes in the level of spending for residential and private nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; the impact of future regulatory or legislative actions; the outcome of pending legal proceedings; pricing; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; increasing healthcare costs; the timing and amount of any future payments to be received under the 5CP earn-out contained in the agreement for the divestiture of the Company's Chemicals business; the Companys ability to secure and permit aggregates reserves in strategically located areas; the Companys ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; risks and uncertainties related to the Companys acquisition of Florida Rock Industries, Inc., including the ability to successfully integrate its operations and to achieve the anticipated cost savings and operational synergies; the possibility that business may suffer because managements attention is diverted to integration concerns; the impact of the global financial crisis on our business and financial condition; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Companys SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and Vulcan assumes no obligation to publicly update such statements.
CONTACT: Vulcan Materials Company Investor Contact: Mark Warren, 205-298-3220 or Media Contact: David Donaldson, 205-298-3220


