FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20090209200132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
Current Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  February 9, 2009
VULCAN MATERIALS COMPANY
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
(205) 298-3000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
        Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
        Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
        Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Vulcan Announces Fourth Quarter Results
Effective cost management continues despite weak demand
BIRMINGHAM, Ala.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 9, 2009--Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC) announced results today for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2008.
Full Year Highlights
Aggregates shipments declined 12 percent.
The average selling price for aggregates increased 7 percent.
Net sales increased 12 percent.
Cash earnings per ton of aggregates improved from the prior year.
On a comparable basis, selling, administrative and general expenses declined 11 percent.
EBITDA was $886 million versus $981 million in the prior year.
Earnings from continuing operations were $231 million, or $2.08 per diluted share.
Cash earnings were $624 million.
Dividends paid were $215 million.
Total debt was reduced by $109 million.
Fourth Quarter Highlights
Net sales were $757 million, a decrease of 6 percent.
Aggregates shipments declined 23 percent.
The average selling price for aggregates increased 6 percent.
The average selling price for asphalt mix increased 27 percent, more than offsetting higher prices for key raw materials.
On a comparable basis, selling, administrative and general expenses declined 8 percent.
EBITDA was $164 million versus $221 million in the prior year.
Earnings from continuing operations were $0.14 per diluted share compared with $0.83 per diluted share in the prior year.
Commenting for the Company, Don James, Vulcans Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, During the fourth quarter, we continued to reduce our operating costs by limiting operating hours, streamlining our work force, and focusing on production efficiencies in the face of a sharp decline in demand for our products. The financial and economic turmoil in the U.S. is unprecedented and the external factors affecting the construction industry continue to present unique challenges for our business. Aggregates demand and our shipments have declined for three consecutive years. Our legacy aggregates shipments in 2008 were down 30 percent from the peak level achieved in 2005. Throughout this period, we have focused aggressively on controlling costs while realizing higher pricing for our products to reflect their value in the attractive markets we serve. As a result of these actions, the cash earnings per ton of aggregates in our legacy operations increased over 50 percent during that same period. The cash earnings generated on each ton of aggregates sold in 2008 was higher than in any other period in our history. The increased level of unit profitability supports our optimism about the earnings potential of our business when demand begins to recover.
Fourth Quarter Operating Results Commentary
According to Mr. James, Lower fourth quarter volumes more than offset the earnings effect from price improvement and prudent cost control. Aggregates pricing increased 6 percent from the prior years fourth quarter. Aggregates shipments were sharply lower versus the prior year in all markets except the Gulf Coast where large energy-related and industrial construction projects have sustained aggregates demand. We continue to respond aggressively to further weakness in demand for our products by making tough decisions regarding operating hours, production rationalization, and manning levels. As a result, employment levels across the Company are down 14 percent and cash period costs for legacy Vulcan aggregates operations declined 15 percent from the prior years fourth quarter. The unit price for diesel fuel decreased 23 percent from the prior years fourth quarter, increasing net earnings approximately $0.03 per diluted share.
Asphalt earnings in the fourth quarter were lower due mostly to lower sales volume. The average selling price for asphalt mix increased 27 percent from the prior years fourth quarter, more than offsetting higher unit costs for raw materials. The average unit cost for purchased liquid asphalt increased 68 percent from the prior years fourth quarter. The increase in the unit cost for liquid asphalt reduced net earnings by approximately $0.12 per diluted share. Concrete earnings decreased from the prior years fourth quarter due to weaker demand and higher costs for key raw materials.
Cement earnings were higher than the prior years fourth quarter due to the inclusion of the Florida Rock operations for the entire period in the current year.
Selling, administrative and general expenses (SAG) in the fourth quarter increased $11 million from the prior years fourth quarter. Lower performance-based compensation was more than offset by the inclusion of the legacy Florida Rock businesses, $5 million of expenses for the fair market value of donated property, and costs related to the replacement of legacy IT systems and the related consolidation of certain administrative support functions. Excluding the aforementioned items, on a comparable basis, SAG expenses declined 8 percent from the prior years fourth quarter.
Interest expense increased $20 million from the prior years fourth quarter due primarily to debt incurred for the acquisition of Florida Rock.
All results are unaudited.
Outlook Highlights and Commentary
Leading indicators including contract awards for construction spending are continuing to slow.
Full year aggregates pricing is expected to increase 6 to 8 percent from the prior year.
Full year aggregates shipments are expected to decline 5 to 10 percent from 2008 levels, excluding any incremental demand from the economic stimulus bill.
The economic stimulus bill currently moving through Congress should provide incremental demand for all major product lines starting in the second half of 2009.
Diesel fuel and liquid asphalt prices have been declining since the third quarter of 2008 and both are expected to be lower compared to 2008 levels.
Our sharp focus on cash generation and liquidity will continue.
Commenting on the Companys outlook for 2009, Mr. James stated, Broad-based economic weakness and extremely tight credit markets continue to hamper construction activity and foster uncertainty in projecting demand for our products. Reduced levels of contract awards in Vulcan-served markets point toward lower residential, private nonresidential, and highway construction activity in 2009, excluding the impact of an economic stimulus plan. In certain Vulcan-served markets, large industrial projects are, to some extent, mitigating the effects of slowing demand from the other construction end markets.
We will continue to operate the business in a manner consistent with the reduced levels of demand with an emphasis on cost control and productivity improvement. We expect higher selling prices in 2009 for our products to help offset the earnings effects of lower volumes. The average selling price for asphalt mix in 2009 should increase from 2008 as lower-priced sales orders in the backlog are replaced with more recent higher-priced orders.
The economic stimulus plan being debated in Congress includes much-needed funding for transportation and other infrastructure-related projects that will benefit the construction industry, hard hit by above-average unemployment and weak demand. Our available production capacity located in attractive markets coupled with our strong unit cash earnings, position Vulcan to participate efficiently and effectively in an economic stimulus plan designed to benefit our economy. Key Vulcan-served states such as California, Florida and Texas should receive the largest percentage of highway funding under the stimulus plan and are likely targets for above-average funding for other stimulus spending for infrastructure because of their high growth and large population base. Vulcan sales in these three states should benefit from our aggregates-focused strategy that is complemented by asphalt and concrete operations.
Last week, we issued $400 million of long-term debt and used the proceeds to reduce short-term bank borrowing, thereby freeing up a like amount of liquidity under our lines of credit. Debt reduction and achieving target debt ratios remain a priority use of cash flows. We expect to reduce total debt by $200 million during 2009, excluding any earnings effect from the economic stimulus plan. For the full year 2009, we expect capital spending to be approximately $200 million, down sharply from the $401 million spent in 2008.
Conference Call
Vulcan will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST on February 10, 2009. Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling 888.679.8038 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start. International participants can dial 617.213.4850. The access code is 51887388. A live webcast will be available via the Internet through Vulcans home page at . The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through February 17, 2009.
www.vulcanmaterials.com
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nations largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those associated with general economic and business conditions; changes in interest rates; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; changes in the level of spending for residential and private nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; the impact of future regulatory or legislative actions; the outcome of pending legal proceedings; pricing; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; increasing healthcare costs; the timing and amount of any future payments to be received under the 5CP earn-out contained in the agreement for the divestiture of the Companys Chemicals business; the Companys ability to secure and permit aggregates reserves in strategically located areas; the Companys ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; risks and uncertainties related to the Companys acquisition of Florida Rock Industries, Inc., including the ability to successfully integrate its operations and to achieve the anticipated cost savings and operational synergies; the possibility that business may suffer because managements attention is diverted to integration concerns; the impact of the global financial crisis on our business and financial condition; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Companys SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and Vulcan assumes no obligation to publicly update such statements.
CONTACT: Vulcan Materials Company Investor Contact: Mark Warren, 205-298-3220 or Media Contact: David Donaldson, 205-298-3220


