FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20101101195859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Vulcan Announces Third Quarter Results
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Nov. 1, 2010 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE: VMC), the nations largest producer of construction aggregates, announced results today for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010.  
(Photo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20090710/CL44887LOGO )
(Photo: http://www.newscom.com/cgi-bin/prnh/20090710/CL44887LOGO )
Third Quarter Summary and Comparisons with the Prior Year
Net earnings were $0.10 per diluted share and earnings from continuing operations were $11 million, or $0.08 per diluted share.
EBITDA was $150 million and cash earnings were $116 million.
Aggregates shipments declined 2.6 percent, decreasing pretax earnings $7 million.
The average price for aggregates was in line with the prior year, with wide variatio ns across markets.
Excluding energy costs, unit cost of sales for aggregates decreased 2 percent.
Unit cost for diesel fuel increased 17 percent, reducing pretax earnings $4 million.
Unit cost for liquid asphalt increased 14 percent, reducing pretax earnings $6 million.
Selling, administrative and general expenses were reduced by $2 million.
Commenting for the Company, Don James, Vulcans Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, Despite the modest decline in third quarter aggregates shipments, we are encouraged by underlying shipping trends.  Trailing twelve month aggregates shipments have been increasing since February in spite of significantly lower volumes in the third quarter in Illinois due to a labor strike affecting our customers.  In asphalt, trailing twelve month shipments have been relatively stable for the last 4 months.
We continue to focus on controlling costs and managing production levels to meet current demand.  During the last two years, we have reduced inventory levels of aggregates across our footprint.  This action, while negatively affecting reported earnings, has improved cash flows and better positions us operationally for a recovery in demand.  In the third quarter, aggregates production equaled sales volumes and, as a result, our unit cost of sales was in line with the prior year, notwithstanding the increase in energy costs. Going forward, we believe the cumulative effect of aggressively managing our inventory levels during the past two years has better positioned us to benefit from higher production levels.
Contract awards for highway construction in Vulcan-served states continue to out-pace other states.  During the twelve months ending September 2010, total contract awards for highway construction in Vulcan-served states, including awards for federal, state and local projects, increased 7 percent from the prior year compared to 3 percent for other states.  Through September 2010, the Federal Highway Administration reported that only 42 percent of the total stimulus funds obligated for highways in Vulcans 10 largest revenue states had been spent  which bodes well for increased construction activity from federal stimulus spending for the remainder of 2010 and 2011.
Third Quarter Operating Results Comment ary
Third quarter aggregates earnings were $125 million versus $133 million in the prior year.  Aggregates shipments declined 2.6 percent from the prior years third quarter, accounting for most of the year-over-year decline in segment earnings.  An industry-wide strike during most of July by construction workers in Illinois affected our customers and accounted for the year-over-year decline in shipments.  Otherwise, many Vulcan-served markets realized solid increases in shipments versus the prior years third quarter due primarily to stronger demand from public infrastructure projects and some improvement in single-family housing starts while some other markets realized declines in shipments.    
The average unit price for aggregates in the third quarter was in line with the prior year but pricing continues to reflect wide variations across Vulcan-served markets.  Aggregates unit costs of sales were in line with the prior years third quarter d espite higher energy costs.  
Segment earnings in asphalt were $8 million lower than the prior year due primarily to a 14 percent increase in the unit cost for liquid asphalt and lower selling prices.  Selling prices for asphalt mix generally lag increasing liquid asphalt costs and were further held in check due to competitive pressures.  Asphalt volumes decreased 3 percent from the prior years third quarter.  Sequentially, unit material margins in the third quarter increased 10 percent from the second quarter due to lower unit costs.  
Concrete segment earnings declined $9 million from the prior years third quarter due principally to lower selling prices.  Cement segment earnings in the third quarter were a loss of $2 million due primarily to lower selling prices.
Selling, administrative and general expense in the third quarter was $78 million versus $80 million in the prior years third quarter.  The year-over-year decline resulted mo stly from lower employee-related expenses.
All results are unaudited.
Outlook Highlights and Commentary
Commenting on the Companys outlook for the remainder of the year, Mr. James stated, While the current construction environment remains challenging, our optimism that the worst is behind us continues to grow.  First, from the perspective of the overall economy, most GDP forecasts for the U.S. indicate further growth.  In past economic cycles, demand for aggregates has improved as GDP has grown during the initial years of economic recovery.  Additionally, state and local tax revenues have historically rebounded after GDP recovers.  Since the second quarter of 2009, all Vulcan-served states have shown positive growth in gross state product  an indication economic recovery is underway.  
Public construction activity, particularly highways, continues to provide solid support for aggregates demand.  Trailing twelve month co ntract awards for highways continue to show improvement versus the prior year, and approximately half of the $26 billion of total stimulus funds obligated for highways in the U.S. remains to be spent, according to the Federal Highway Administration.  In August, the Congressional Budget Office forecasted total outlays for federal highway construction for the fiscal year ending September 2011 to increase 7 percent from the fiscal year just ended.  This projected increase includes outlays from the regular highway funding program as well as stimulus funds.  
Private construction activity has remained challenging, particularly private nonresidential construction.  Single-family housing starts appear to have turned the corner, bottoming late in 2009.  Through September, single-family housing starts for the trailing twelve months have increased 10 percent versus the same period last year, due in part to the home-buyers tax credit that expired in April.  While private nonre sidential construction remains weak, the rate of decline in contract awards has slowed.  A number of external forecasts now are calling for private nonresidential construction activity to bottom in 2011.  The start of a recovery in this end market will be influenced by employment growth, business investment and lending activity.
Overall, pricing for aggregates remains solid.  A number of our markets are realizing year-over-year price growth, although pricing in certain other markets has declined due to competitive pressures.  As a result, we expect pricing in the fourth quarter to approximate the prior years level.  Assuming typical weather patterns, we expect fourth quarter aggregates shipments to be up slightly from last years level.  
In our asphalt business, material margins on each ton of asphalt mix sold have trended higher since the first quarter of this year due to a relatively more stable cost environment for liquid asphalt.   ;We expect this trend to continue in the fourth quarter.  In concrete and cement, we expect higher volumes to offset lower prices.
Debt reduction and achieving target debt ratios remain a priority.  We expect to reduce total debt by $120 million by the end of 2010.  For the full year, we now expect capital spending to be less than $100 million, down from the previous guidance of $125 million.
Our available production capacity positions Vulcan to participate efficiently and effectively in the increase in federal highway spending projected by the Congressional Budget Office.  By the second half of 2011, we expect that continued growth in the overall economy and an improving job market will begin driving an increase in private construction activity, accelerating the earnings leverage of the Company.
Conference Call
Vulcan will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT on November 2, 2010.  Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling 800.884.5695 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start.  International participants can dial 617.786.2960.  The access code is 36126335.  A live webcast will be available via the Internet through Vulcan's home page at www.vulcanmaterials.com.  The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through November 9, 2010.
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 Index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements that are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.  These assumptions, risks and uncertainties include, but are not limite d to, those associated with general economic and business conditions; changes in interest rates; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; changes in the level of spending for private residential and nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; the impact of future regulatory or legislative actions; the outcome of pending legal proceedings; pricing for our products; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; healthcare costs; the amount of long-term debt and interest expense incurred by the Company; volatility in pension plan asset values which may require cash contributions to the pension plans; the timing and amount of any future payments to be received under the 5CP earn-out contained in the agreement for the divestiture of the Company's Chemicals business; the impact of environmental clean-up costs and other liabilities relating to previously divested businesses; the Companys ability to secure and permit aggregates reserves in strategically located areas; the Companys ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; the impact of the global economic recession on our business and financial condition and access to the capital markets; the potential impact of future legislation or regulations relating to climate change or greenhouse gas emissions; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the Companys SEC reports, including the report on Form 10-K for the year.  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date hereof, and Vulcan assumes no obligation to publicly update such statements.
CONTACT:  Investors:  Mark Warren, +1-205-298-3220,  or Media: David Donaldson, +1-205-298-3220


