FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20100712162710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01   Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On July 7, 2010, Vulcan Materials Company (Vulcan, we or us) entered into a $450 million Term Loan Credit Agreement (the Term Credit Agreement) with Suntrust Bank, as administrative agent (in such capacity, the Administrative Agent), and the Lenders (the Lenders) and other parties thereto.
The Term Credit Facility is senior unsecured debt of Vulcan. The Term Credit Agreement contains customary representations, affirmative and negative covenants (including limitations on liens, and a maximum consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio of 0.65 to 1.00) and events of default usual for credit facilities of the type. The Term Credit Facility matures on July 7, 2015.
Proceeds of the Term Credit Facility will be used to pay down our outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.
The loans under the Term Credit Facility bear interest at a rate equal to the Eurodollar Rate plus a margin determined by reference to a ratings-based pricing grid, or the base rate at the option of Vulcan (which is defined as the highest of the SunTrust prime rate, the Federal funds rate plus 0.50% and the one-month Eurodollar Rate determined on a daily basis plus 1.00%). Assuming a BBB/Baa2 equivalent credit rating level, the applicable rate under the Term Credit Facility will be the Eurodollar Rate plus 2.00%.
Certain of the Lenders and their affiliates have provided, from time to time, and may continue to provide, investment banking, commercial banking, financial and other services to us, including letters of credit, depository and account processing services, for which we have paid and intend to pay customary fees, and our pension fund also invests in funds managed by the Lenders or affiliates of the Lenders. Certain of the Lenders were parties to our prior credit agreements. Banc of America Securities LLC, an affiliate of Bank of America, N.A., SunTrust Robinson Humphrey and Goldman, Sachs & Co., each a Lender, are dealers with respect to our commercial paper program.
The foregoing description of the Term Credit Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Term Credit Agreement, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 1.1 to this Report and is incorporated in this Report by reference.
 
Page 2 of 4
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following exhibit to the Registration Statement is being filed with this report:
 
Page 3 of 4
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Page 4 of 4
 

 
Exhibit 1.1
 
 
 
 
 
i
 
 
ii
 
 
iii
 
 
is entered into as of July 7, 2010, among , a New Jersey corporation (the ), each lender from time to time party hereto (collectively, the  and individually, a ), and , as Co-Syndication Agents, and,as Co-Documentation Agents, , as Managing Agent and ,as Administrative Agent.
THIS TERM LOAN CREDIT AGREEMENT
VULCAN
MATERIALS
COMPANY
Borrower
Lenders
Lender
REGIONS BANK
COMPASS BANK
BRANCH BANKING AND TRUST COMPANY
MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD.
 
U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
SUNTRUST BANK
 
 
The Borrower has requested that the Lenders provide a term loan facility, and the Lenders are willing to do so on the terms and conditions set forth herein.
 
In consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained, the parties hereto covenant and agree as follows:
 
 
  As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
Defined Terms
.
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in .
Act
Section 10.17
 
 shall mean any affirmative or negative covenant or similar restriction that is contained in any of the Credit Documents and is applicable to the Borrower or any Subsidiary (regardless of whether such provision is labeled or otherwise characterized as a covenant) the subject matter of which either (i) is similar to that of any covenant in or of this Agreement, or related definitions in of this Agreement, but contains one or more percentages, amounts or formulas that is more restrictive than those set forth herein or more beneficial to the holder or holders of the Indebtedness under the Outstanding Credit Facilities (and such covenant or similar restriction shall be deemed an Additional Covenant only to the extent that it is more restrictive or more beneficial) or (ii) is different from the subject matter of any covenant in or of this Agreement, or related definitions in of this Agreement.
Additional Covenant
Articles VI
VII
Article I
Articles VI
VII
Article I
 
 shall mean any provision contained in the Outstanding Credit Facilities which permits the holder or holders of Indebtedness under the Outstanding Credit Facilities to accelerate (with the passage of time or giving of notice or both) the maturity thereof or otherwise requires the Borrower or any Subsidiary to purchase such Indebtedness prior to the stated maturity thereof and which either (i) is similar to any Default or Event of Default contained in of this Agreement, or related definitions in of this Agreement, but contains one or more percentages, amounts or formulas that is more restrictive or has a shorter grace period than those set forth herein or is more beneficial to the holders of such other Indebtedness (and such provision shall be deemed an Additional Default only to the extent that it is more restrictive, has a shorter grace period or is more beneficial) or (ii) is different from the subject matter of any Default or Event of Default contained in of this Agreement, or related definitions in of this Agreement.
Additional Default
Article VIII
Article I
Article VIII
Article I
 
 means SunTrust in its capacity as administrative agent under any of the Loan Documents, or any successor administrative agent.
Administrative Agent
 
 
 
 
 means the Administrative Agents address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on , or such other address or account as the Administrative Agent may from time to time notify to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Administrative Agents Office
Schedule 10.02
 
 means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
 means, with respect to any Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
 
 means this Term Loan Credit Agreement, as amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time.
Agreement
 
 means, with respect to any Lender at any time, a fraction (expressed as a percentage, carried out to the ninth decimal place), the numerator of which is the amount of the Term Loan funded by such Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the Outstanding Amount.
Applicable Percentage
 
 means, from time to time, the following percentages per annum, based upon the Debt Rating as set forth below:
Applicable Rate
 
Applicable Rate
 
 means, as of any date of determination, the rating as determined by either S&P or Moodys (collectively, the ) of the Borrowers non-credit-enhanced, senior unsecured long-term debt whether or not any such debt securities are actually outstanding, and any rating assigned to any other debt security of the Borrower shall be disregarded; that (a) if the respective Debt Ratings issued by the foregoing rating agencies differ, then the Pricing Level for the lower of such Debt Ratings shall apply (with the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 1 being the highest and the Debt Rating for Pricing Level 5 being the lowest) and (b) if the Borrower does not have any Debt Rating, Pricing Level 5 shall apply.
Debt Rating
Debt Ratings
provided
 
Initially, the Applicable Rate shall be determined based upon the publicly announced Debt Rating in effect on the Closing Date. Thereafter, each change in the Applicable Rate resulting from a publicly announced change in the Debt Rating shall be effective during the period commencing on the date of the public announcement or publication thereof by S&P or Moodys, respectively, or, in the absence of such announcement or publication, on the effective date of such changed Debt Rating, and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change.
 
 means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
2
 
 
 means each of SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., Regions Capital Markets and Compass Bank, each in its capacity as a joint lead arranger.
Arrangers
 
 means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
 
 means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by ), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in substantially the form of or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
Section 10.06(b)
Exhibit D
 
 shall mean, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day 1/2 of 1% and (c) the Eurodollar Rate determined on a daily basis for an Interest Period of one (1) month, plus 1%. For purposes hereof:  shall mean, at any time, the rate of interest per annum publicly announced or otherwise identified from time to time by SunTrust at its principal office in Atlanta, Georgia as its prime rate. Each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective as of the opening of business on the day such change in the Prime Rate occurs. The parties hereto acknowledge that the rate announced publicly by SunTrust as its Prime Rate is an index or base rate and shall not necessarily be its lowest or best rate charged to its customers or other banks; and  shall mean, for any day, the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published on the next succeeding Business Day, the average of the quotations for the day of such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. If for any reason the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error) that it is unable to ascertain the Federal Funds Rate, for any reason, including the inability or failure of the Administrative Agent to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms above, the Base Rate shall be determined without regard to clause (b) of the first sentence of this definition, as appropriate, until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate shall be effective on the opening of business on the date of such change.
Base Rate
plus
Prime Rate
Federal Funds Rate
 
 means a Term Loan that bears interest based on the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
 
 means Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation.
Borrower
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Borrower Materials
Section 6.02
 
 means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the State of Georgia and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
 
 means any nonredeemable capital stock of the Borrower or any Consolidated Subsidiary (to the extent issued to a Person other than the Borrower), whether common or preferred.
Capital Stock
 
 means the occurrence, after the date of this Agreement, of any of the following: (a) the adoption or taking effect of any law, rule, regulation or treaty, (b) any change in any law, rule, regulation or treaty or in the administration, interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority or (c) the making or issuance of any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority.
Change in Law
 
3
 
 
 means the first date all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with .
Closing Date
Section 4.01
Section 10.01
 
 means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
 means, as to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make a portion of the Term Loan hereunder; that, at any time after funding of the Term Loan, determinations of Required Lenders shall be based on the Outstanding Amount.
Commitment
provided
 
 means a certificate substantially in the form of .
Compliance Certificate
Exhibit C
 
 means at any date all obligations for indebtedness for borrowed money shown on a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of such date (or would be if a balance sheet were prepared on such date); that indebtedness for borrowed money of any Partially Owned Subsidiary which is a Consolidated Subsidiary shall be equal to the Guaranteed Amount, if any, of such indebtedness.
Consolidated Debt
provided
 
 means at any date any Subsidiary or other entity the accounts of which, in accordance with GAAP, are consolidated with those of any Person in its consolidated financial statements as of such date.
Consolidated Subsidiary
 
 means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. Controlling and Controlled have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
 
 means all members of a controlled group of corporations and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Controlled Group
 
 shall mean the Loan Documents as such term is defined in the Outstanding Credit Facilities, as amended, restated, supplemented or modified from time to time.
Credit Documents
 
 has the meaning specified in the definition of Applicable Rate.
Debt Rating
 
 means the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief Laws of the United States or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect and affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
 
 means any event or condition that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of any notice, the passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default.
Default
 
 means when used with respect to Obligations, an interest rate equal to (i) the Base Rate plus (ii) 2% per annum; , , that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Default Rate shall be an interest rate equal to the interest rate (including any Applicable Rate) otherwise applicable to such Term Loan plus 2% per annum.
Default Rate
provided
however
 
4
 
 
 means any Lender that (a) has failed to fund any portion of the Term Loan, (b) has otherwise failed to pay over to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender any other amount required to be paid by it hereunder within one Business Day of the date when due, unless the subject of a good faith dispute or unless such failure has been cured, or (c) has been deemed insolvent or become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
Defaulting Lender
 
 and mean lawful money of the United States.
Dollar
$
 
 means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of any political subdivision of the United States.
Domestic Subsidiary
 
 means any Person that meets the requirements to be an assignee under ,  and (subject to such consents, if any, as may be required under ).
Eligible Assignee
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
(v)
(vi)
Section 10.06(b)(iii)
 
 means any and all Federal, state, local, and foreign statutes, laws, regulations, ordinances, rules, judgments, orders, decrees, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses or governmental restrictions relating to pollution and the protection of the environment or the release of any materials into the environment, including those related to hazardous substances or wastes, air emissions and discharges to waste or public systems.
Environmental Laws
 
 means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
ERISA
 
 means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) under common control with the Borrower within the meaning of Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code (and Sections 414(m) and (o) of the Code for purposes of provisions relating to Section 412 of the Code).
ERISA Affiliate
 
 means (a) any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than events for which the 30 day notice period has been waived, with respect to a Pension Plan; (b) a withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Pension Plan subject to Section 4063 of ERISA during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA) or a cessation of operations that is treated as such a withdrawal under Section 4062(e) of ERISA; (c) a complete or partial withdrawal by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (d) the filing of a notice of intent to terminate, the treatment of a Plan amendment as a termination under Section 4041 or 4041A of ERISA, or the commencement of proceedings by the PBGC to terminate a Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) an event or condition which constitutes grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Pension Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (f) the imposition of any liability under Title IV of ERISA, other than for PBGC premiums due but not delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA or contributions to a Pension Plan in the ordinary course, upon the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate.
ERISA Event
 
 means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
 
Eurodollar Base Rate
1.00  Eurodollar Reserve
Eurodollar Rate   =  Percentage
 
5
 
 
Where,
 
 means, for such Interest Period, the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100 of 1%) appearing on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 Page (or any successor page) as the London interbank offered rate for deposits in Dollars at approximately 11:00 A.M. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period for a term comparable to such Interest Period. If for any reason such rate is not available, then Eurodollar Base Rate shall mean the rate per annum at which, as determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with its customary practices, Dollars in an amount comparable to the Term Loans then requested are being offered to leading banks at approximately 11:00 A.M. London time, two (2) Business Days prior to the commencement of the applicable Interest Period for settlement in immediately available funds by leading banks in the London interbank market for a period equal to the Interest Period selected.
Eurodollar Base Rate
 
 means a Term Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
 
 means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the FRB for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurodollar funding. The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Event of Default
Section 8.01
 
 means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) taxes imposed on or measured by its overall net income (however denominated), and franchise taxes imposed on it (in lieu of net income taxes), by the jurisdiction (or any political subdivision thereof) under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable Lending Office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under ), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party hereto (or designates a new Lending Office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lenders failure or inability (other than as a result of a Change in Law) to comply with , except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new Lending Office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to .
Excluded Taxes
Section 10.13
Section 3.01(e)
Section 3.01(a)
 
 shall have the meaning set forth in the definition of Base Rate.
Federal Funds Rate
 
 means the letter agreement, dated June 2, 2010, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc.
Fee Letter
 
 means that certain Five Year Credit Agreement, dated as of November 16, 2007, by and among the Borrower, Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto.
Five Year Credit Agreement
 
 means Florida Rock Industries, Inc., a Florida corporation.
Florida Rock Industries
 
6
 
 
 means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes. For purposes of this definition, the United States, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction.
Foreign Lender
 
 means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States.
FRB
 
 means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its activities.
Fund
 
 means the first date after the Closing Date (i) on which all the conditions precedent in are satisfied or waived in accordance with and (ii) which is no later than 7 Business Days after the Closing Date.
Funding Date
Section 4.02
Section 10.01
 
 means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or such other principles as may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession in the United States, that are applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination, consistently applied.
GAAP
 
 means the government of the United States or any other nation, or of any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government (including any supra-national bodies such as the European Union or the European Central Bank).
Governmental Authority
 
 by any Person means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of such Person directly or indirectly guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any obligation, direct or indirect, contingent or otherwise, of such Person (a) to secure, purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation (whether arising by virtue of partnership arrangements, by agreement to keep-well, to purchase assets, goods, securities or services, to provide collateral security, to take-or-pay, or to maintain financial statement conditions or otherwise) or (b) entered into for the purpose of assuring in any other manner the obligee of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof or to protect such obligee against loss in respect thereof (in whole or in part); that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. The term Guarantee used as a verb has a corresponding meaning.
Guarantee
provided
 
 means, with respect to the Indebtedness of another Person, the aggregate amount for which the Borrower is liable (whether by Guarantee or as a general partner or otherwise, but excluding any amounts with respect to which the Borrower is expressly exculpated).
Guaranteed Amount
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Increase
Section 2.11(a)
 
 of any Person means at any date, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person to pay the deferred purchase price of property or services, except trade accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business, (d) the capitalized amount of all obligations of such Person as lessee under capital leases (excluding all Synthetic Lease Obligations) that are required to be accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, (e) all obligations of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts payable under a bankers acceptance, (f) all obligations (contingent or otherwise) of such Person to reimburse any bank or other Person in respect of amounts paid or to be paid under a drawn letter of credit or similar instrument, (g) all Indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on any asset of such Person, whether or not such Indebtedness is assumed by such Person, and (h) all Indebtedness of others Guaranteed by such Person.
Indebtedness
 
7
 
 
 means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Indemnitees
Section 10.04(b)
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 10.07.
Information
 
 means, (a) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last day of each Interest Period applicable to such Term Loan and the Maturity Date; , , that if any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan exceeds three months, the respective dates that fall every three months after the beginning of such Interest Period shall also be Interest Payment Dates and (b) as to any Base Rate Loan, the fifteenth day of each March, June, September and December (provided, however, if such payment date is not a Business Day, such payment shall be due on the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such payment shall be due on the next preceding Business Day) and the Maturity Date.
Interest Payment Date
provided
however
 
 means as to each Eurodollar Rate Loan, the period commencing on the date such Eurodollar Rate Loan is disbursed or (in the case of any Eurodollar Rate Loan) converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan and ending on the date one, two, three or six months thereafter, as selected by the Borrower in its Term Loan Notice; that:
Interest Period
provided
 
(i)           any Interest Period that would otherwise end on a day that is not a Business Day shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such Business Day falls in another calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day;
 
(ii)           any Interest Period that begins on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the calendar month at the end of such Interest Period; and
 
(iii)          no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date.
 
 means SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc., Regions Capital Markets and Compass Bank.
Joint Bookrunners
 
 means, collectively, all international, foreign, Federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
 
 has the meaning specified in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Lender
 
8
 
 
 means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such in such Lenders Administrative Questionnaire, or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time to time notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
 
 means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, encumbrance, lien (statutory or other), charge, or other security interest or encumbrance (including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any easement, right of way or other encumbrance on title to real property, and any capital lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing).
Lien
 
 means this Agreement, each Note and the Fee Letter.
Loan Documents
 
 means (a) a material adverse effect upon, the operations, business, properties or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (b) a material impairment of the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under any Loan Document; or (c) a material adverse effect upon the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability against the Borrower of any Loan Document.
Material Adverse Effect
 
 means July 7, 2015; , , that, if such date is not a Business Day, the Maturity Date shall be the next preceding Business Day.
Maturity Date
provided
however
 
 means Moodys Investors Service, Inc. and any successor thereto.
Moodys
 
 means any employee benefit plan of the type described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA, to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate makes or is obligated to make contributions, or during the preceding five plan years, has made or been obligated to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
 
 means a promissory note made by the Borrower in favor of a Lender evidencing the Term Loan made by such Lender, substantially in the form of .
Note
Exhibit B
 
 means all advances to, and debts, liabilities and other monetary obligations of, the Borrower arising under any Loan Document or otherwise with respect to the Term Loan, whether direct or indirect (including those acquired by assumption), absolute or contingent, due or to become due, now existing or hereafter arising and including interest and fees that accrue after the commencement by or against the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Laws naming such Person as the debtor in such proceeding, regardless of whether such interest and fees are allowed claims in such proceeding.
Obligations
 
 shall mean the U.S. Department of the Treasurys Office of Foreign Assets Control.
OFAC
 
 means, (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and the bylaws (or equivalent or comparable constitutive documents with respect to any non-U.S. jurisdiction); (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation or organization and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture, trust or other form of business entity, the partnership, joint venture or other applicable agreement of formation or organization and any agreement, instrument, filing or notice with respect thereto filed in connection with its formation or organization with the applicable Governmental Authority in the jurisdiction of its formation or organization and, if applicable, any certificate or articles of formation or organization of such entity.
Organization Documents
 
9
 
 
 means all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or under any other Loan Document or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any other Loan Document. Other Taxes shall not include any Taxes imposed on (or measured by reference to) gross income, net income, or gain.
Other Taxes
 
 means, as of any date of determination, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan after giving effect to any prepayments or repayments of the Term Loan.
Outstanding Amount
 
 mean, collectively, (a) the Five-Year Credit Agreement and  (b) the Three Year Term Loan Agreement, each as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Outstanding Credit Facilities
 
 means a Subsidiary that is not a Wholly Owned Subsidiary.
Partially Owned Subsidiary
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Participant
Section 10.06(d)
 
 means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any entity succeeding to any or all of its functions under ERISA.
PBGC
 
 means any employee pension benefit plan (as such term is defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA), other than a Multiemployer Plan, that is subject to Title IV of ERISA and is sponsored or maintained by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate or to which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate contributes or has an obligation to contribute, or in the case of a multiple employer or other plan described in Section 4064(a) of ERISA, has made contributions at any time during the immediately preceding five plan years.
Pension Plan
 
 means:
Permitted Encumbrances
 
Liens imposed by law or any Governmental Authority for taxes, assessments or charges that are not yet due or are being contested;
 
carriers, warehousemens, mechanics, materialmens, repairmens and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than thirty (30) days or where the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings;
 
pledges and deposits made in compliance with workers compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
 
deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
 
judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default; and
 
easements, zoning restrictions, minor title imperfections, restrictions on use, rights of way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries;
 
10
 
 
, that the term Permitted Encumbrances shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness.
provided
 
 means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
 
 means at any time an employee pension benefit plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code and is either (a) maintained by a member of the Controlled Group for employees of any member of the Controlled Group or (b) maintained pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or any other arrangement under which more than one employer makes contributions and to which a member of the Controlled Group is then making or accruing an obligation to make contributions.
Plan
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Platform
Section 6.02
 
 means all real property owned, leased or otherwise used or occupied by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, wherever located.
Properties
 
 means all rights of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries to payment, whether constituting an account, chattel paper, instrument, general intangible or otherwise, arising from the sale of goods or services (including rights under bill and hold arrangements) by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (and including the right to payment of any interest or finance charges and other obligations with respect thereto).
Receivables
 
 means any transaction or series of transactions that may be entered into by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries pursuant to which the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to the Receivables Subsidiary and, in the case of a transfer by the Receivables Subsidiary, any other Person, or may grant a security interest in, any Receivables (whether now existing or arising in the future); , that:
Receivables Securitization
provided
 
no portion of the indebtedness or any other obligations (contingent or otherwise) of a Receivables Subsidiary (i) is guaranteed by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary and excluding guarantees of obligations pursuant to customary securitization undertakings), (ii) is recourse to or obligates the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) for payment other than pursuant to customary securitization undertakings or (iii) subjects any property or asset of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary), directly or indirectly, contingently or otherwise, to the satisfaction of obligations incurred in such transactions, other than pursuant to customary securitization undertakings;
 
the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than the Receivables Subsidiary) do not have any obligation to maintain or preserve the financial condition of the Receivables Subsidiary or cause such entity to achieve certain levels of operating results; and
 
fair value has been received.
 
 means a special purpose corporation that is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower, whose primary business shall be the acquisition of Receivables pursuant to the Receivables Securitization and those activities incidental to the Receivables Securitization.
Receivables Subsidiary
 
 has the meaning specified in .
Register
Section 10.06(c)
 
11
 
 
 has the meaning specified in the Securities Laws and shall be independent of the Borrower as prescribed in the Securities Laws.
Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
 means, with respect to any Person, such Persons Affiliates and the partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and of such Persons Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
 means, as of any date of determination, Lenders having more than 50% of the Outstanding Amount; that the portion of the Outstanding Amount held or deemed held by any Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes of making a determination of Required Lenders.
Required Lenders
provided
 
 means the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, treasurer, assistant treasurer or controller of the Borrower and, solely for purposes of notices given pursuant to , any other officer or employee of the Borrower so designated by any of the foregoing officers in a notice to the Administrative Agent. Any document delivered hereunder that is signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower shall be conclusively presumed to have been authorized by all necessary corporate, partnership and/or other action on the part of the Borrower and such Responsible Officer shall be conclusively presumed to have acted on behalf of the Borrower.
Responsible Officer
Article II
 
 means Standard & Poors Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and any successor thereto.
S&P
 
 shall mean (a) a country or a government of a country, (b) an agency of the government of a country, (c) an organization directly or indirectly controlled by a country or its government, or (d) a person or entity resident in or determined to be resident in a country, that is subject to a country sanctions program administered and enforced by OFAC.
Sanctioned Entity
 
 shall mean a person named on the list of Specially Designated Nationals maintained by OFAC.
Sanctioned Person
 
 means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any of its principal functions.
SEC
 
 means the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the applicable accounting and auditing principles, rules, standards and practices promulgated, approved or incorporated by the SEC, all as amended.
Securities Laws
 
 means, at any time, the shareholders equity of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, as set forth or reflected on the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Shareholders Equity
 
 means any Subsidiary within the meaning of Rule 1-02 under Regulation S-X promulgated by the SEC.
Significant Subsidiary
 
 of a Person means a corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which a majority of the shares of securities or other interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors or other governing body (other than securities or interests having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) are at the time beneficially owned, or the management of which is otherwise controlled, directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, or both, by such Person. Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to a Subsidiary or to Subsidiaries shall refer to a Subsidiary or Subsidiaries of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
 
12
 
 
 means SunTrust Bank and its successors.
SunTrust
 
 means all obligations of such Person with respect to interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements or other hedging arrangements (valued for any SWAP Obligation at any date, as the net payments that such Person would have to make in the event of an early termination of the applicable agreement on such date).
SWAP Obligations
 
 means any operating lease under GAAP for which the lessee retains federal tax ownership of the property leased.
Synthetic Lease
 
 means any and all liabilities, indebtedness, rent, and all other obligations of the Borrower or any Subsidiary owed under any Synthetic Lease.
Synthetic Lease Obligations
 
 means all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings or like charges imposed by any Governmental Authority, including any interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto.
Taxes
 
 has the meaning specified in Section 2.01.
Term Loan
 
 means a borrowing consisting of simultaneous Term Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, having the same Interest Period made by each of the Lenders pursuant to Section 2.01.
Term Loan Borrowing
 
 means a notice of (a) a Term Loan Borrowing, (b) a conversion of Term Loans from one Type to the other, or (c) a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, pursuant to Section 2.02(a), which, if in writing, shall be substantially in the form of .
Term Loan Notice
Exhibit A
 
 means that certain Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of June 23, 2008, by and among the Borrower, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto .
Three Year Term Loan Agreement
 
 means the sum of (a) Shareholders Equity plus (b) Consolidated Debt.
Total Capitalization
 
 means the execution and delivery of the Loan Documents and the borrowings hereunder.
Transactions
 
 means with respect to a Term Loan, its character as a Base Rate Loan or a Eurodollar Rate Loan.
Type
 
 and  mean the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
 
 means any Subsidiary all of the shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of which (except directors qualifying shares) are at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Borrower.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 
With reference to this Agreement and each other Loan Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Loan Document:
Other Interpretive Provisions
. 
 
13
 
The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words include, includes and including shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase without limitation. The word will shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word shall. Unless the context requires otherwise, (i) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document (including any Organization Document) shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein or in any other Loan Document), (ii) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Persons successors and assigns, (iii) the words herein, hereof and hereunder, and words of similar import when used in any Loan Document, shall be construed to refer to such Loan Document in its entirety and not to any particular provision thereof, (iv) all references in a Loan Document to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, the Loan Document in which such references appear, (v) any reference to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions consolidating, amending, replacing or interpreting such law and any reference to any law or regulation shall, unless otherwise specified, refer to such law or regulation as amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, and (vi) the words asset and property shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
 
In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word from means from and including; the words to and until each mean to but excluding; and the word through means to and including.
 
Section headings herein and in the other Loan Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement or any other Loan Document.
 
Accounting Terms
.
 
. All accounting terms not specifically or completely defined herein shall be construed in conformity with, and all financial data (including financial ratios and other financial calculations) required to be submitted pursuant to this Agreement shall be prepared in conformity with, GAAP applied on a consistent basis throughout the applicable period, as in effect from time to time, except as otherwise specifically prescribed herein.
Generally
 
. If at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either the Borrower or the Required Lenders shall so request, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Borrower shall negotiate in good faith to amend such ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such change in GAAP (subject to the approval of the Required Lenders); , that, until so amended, (i) such ratio or requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such change therein and (ii) the Borrower shall provide to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders financial statements and other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP.  Notwithstanding any other provision contained herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature used herein shall be construed, and all computations of amounts and ratios referred to herein shall be made, without giving effect to any election under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 159 (or any other Financial Accounting Standard having a similar result or effect) to value any Indebtedness or other liabilities of  any Loan Party or any Subsidiary of any Loan Party at "fair value", as defined therein.
Changes in GAAP
provided
 
14
 
Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
Roundin
g. 
 
  Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to times of day shall be references to Eastern time (daylight or standard, as applicable).
Times of Day
.
 
 
On the Funding Date, each of the Lenders severally agrees to make its portion of a term loan (in the amount of its respective Commitment) to the Borrower in a single advance, in an aggregate principal amount of (this loan and any additional term loan made pursuant to , the ). The Term Loan may consist of Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Rate Loans or a combination thereof, as the Borrower may request; that with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan borrowed on the Closing Date, the Administrative Agent must receive a funding indemnity letter at least three Business Days prior to the Closing Date in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent. Amounts repaid or prepaid on the Term Loan may not be reborrowed. The Commitments shall terminate upon the initial funding of the Term Loan.
Term Loan
. 
FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($450,000,000)
Section 2.11
Term Loan
provided
 
.
Borrowings, Conversions and Continuations of Term Loans
 
Each Term Loan Borrowing, conversion of Term Loans from one Type to the other, and each continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be made upon the Borrowers irrevocable notice to the Administrative Agent, which may be given by telephone. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (i) three (3) Business Days prior to the requested date of any Term Loan Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Rate Loans to Base Rate Loans, and (ii) on the requested date of any Term Loan Borrowing of Base Rate Loans. Each telephonic notice by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.02(a) must be confirmed promptly by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a written Term Loan Notice, appropriately completed and signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower. Each Term Loan Borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof. Each Term Loan Borrowing of or conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof. Each Term Loan Notice (whether telephonic or written) shall specify (i) whether the Borrower is requesting a Term Loan Borrowing, a conversion of Term Loans from one Type to the other, or a continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans, (ii) the requested date of the conversion or continuation, as the case may be (which shall be a Business Day), (iii) the principal amount of Term Loans to be borrowed, converted or continued, (iv) the Type of Term Loans to be borrowed or to which existing Term Loans are to be converted, and (v) if applicable, the duration of the Interest Period with respect thereto. If the Borrower fails to specify a Type of Term Loan in a Term Loan Notice or if the Borrower fails to give a timely notice requesting a conversion or continuation, then the applicable Term Loans shall be made as, or converted to, Base Rate Loans. Any such automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans shall be effective as of the last day of the Interest Period then in effect with respect to the applicable Eurodollar Rate Loans. If the Borrower requests a conversion to, or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans in any such Term Loan Notice, but fails to specify an Interest Period, it will be deemed to have specified an Interest Period of one month.
 
15
 
 
Following receipt of a Term Loan Notice, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender of the amount of its Applicable Percentage of the applicable Term Loans, and if no timely notice of a conversion or continuation is provided by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the details of any automatic conversion to Base Rate Loans described in the preceding subsection. In the case of a Committed Borrowing, each Lender shall make the amount of its Term Loan available to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agents Office not later than 2:00 p.m. on the Business Day specified in the applicable Term Loan Notice. Upon satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in Section 4.01, the Administrative Agent shall make all funds so received available to the Borrower in like funds as received by the Administrative Agent either by (i) crediting the account of the Borrower on the books of SunTrust with the amount of such funds or (ii) wire transfer of such funds, in each case in accordance with instructions provided to (and reasonably acceptable to) the Administrative Agent by the Borrower.
 
Except as otherwise provided herein, a Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued or converted only on the last day of an Interest Period for such Eurodollar Rate Loan. During the existence of a Default, no Term Loans may be requested as, converted to or continued as Eurodollar Rate Loans without the consent of the Required Lenders.
 
The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the interest rate applicable to any Interest Period for Eurodollar Rate Loans upon determination of such interest rate. At any time that Base Rate Loans are outstanding, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change in SunTrusts prime rate used in determining the Base Rate promptly following the public announcement of such change.
 
After giving effect to all conversions of Term Loans from one Type to the other, and all continuations of Term Loans as the same Type, there shall not be more than ten Interest Periods in effect with respect to Term Loans.
 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrative Agent, at any time or from time to time voluntarily prepay the Term Loan in whole or in part without premium or penalty; that (i) such notice (which may be conditional) must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 12:00 noon (A) three (3) Business Days prior to any date of prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans and (B) on the date of prepayment of Base Rate Loans; (ii) any prepayment of Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $5,000,000 or a whole multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof; and (iii) any prepayment of Base Rate Loans shall be in a principal amount of $500,000 or a whole multiple of $100,000 in excess thereof or, in each case, if less, the entire principal amount thereof then outstanding. Each such notice shall specify the date and amount of such prepayment and the Type(s) of Term Loans to be prepaid and, if Eurodollar Rate Loans are to be repaid, the Interest Period(s) of such Term Loans. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify each Lender of its receipt of each such notice, and of the amount of such Lenders Applicable Percentage of such prepayment. If such notice is given by the Borrower, the Borrower shall make such prepayment and the payment amount specified in such notice shall be due and payable on the date specified therein. Any prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be accompanied by all accrued interest on the amount prepaid, together with any additional amounts required pursuant to Section 3.05. Each such prepayment shall be applied to the Term Loans of the Lenders in accordance with their respective Applicable Percentages, and applied to installments of the Term Loans in direct order of maturity (such installments shall be adjusted to reflect the application of any such prepayments).
Prepayments
.  
provided
 
The Borrower shall repay the outstanding principal amount of the Term Loan in consecutive quarterly installments on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the table below (provided, however, if such payment date is not a Business Day, such payment shall be due on the next preceding Business Day) with the remaining balance to be paid on the Maturity Date in an amount equal to the aggregate amount of all Term Loans outstanding on such Maturity Date (as such installments shall hereafter be adjusted as a result of prepayments made pursuant to Section 2.03), unless accelerated sooner pursuant to Section 8.02:
Repayment of Term Loans
.  
 
 
16
 
 
 
.
Interest
 
At the Borrowers option, subject to the provisions of subsection (b) below, (i) each Eurodollar Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof for each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the Eurodollar Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Rate and (ii) each Base Rate Loan shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from the applicable borrowing date at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Rate.
 
(e)  If any amount of principal of any Term Loan is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
 
If any amount (other than principal of any Term Loan) payable by the Borrower under any Loan Document is not paid when due (without regard to any applicable grace periods), whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, then upon the request of the Required Lenders, such amount shall thereafter bear interest at a fluctuating interest rate per annum at all times equal to the Default Rate to the fullest extent permitted by applicable Laws.
 
Accrued and unpaid interest on past due amounts (including interest on past due interest) shall be due and payable upon demand.
 
Interest on each Term Loan shall be due and payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date applicable thereto and at such other times as may be specified herein. Interest hereunder shall be due and payable in accordance with the terms hereof before and after judgment, and before and after the commencement of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law.
 
The Borrower shall pay to each of SunTrust and SunTrust Robinson Humphrey, Inc. for their own respective accounts fees in the amounts and at the times specified in the Fee Letter. Such fees shall be fully earned when paid and shall not be refundable for any reason whatsoever.
Fees
.  
 
 
17
 
All computations of interest for Base Rate Loans when the Base Rate is determined by SunTrusts prime rate shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and actual days elapsed. All other computations of fees and interest shall be made on the basis of a 360-day year and actual days elapsed (which results in more fees or interest, as applicable, being paid than if computed on the basis of a 365-day year). Interest shall accrue on each Term Loan for the day on which the Term Loan is made, and shall not accrue on a Term Loan, or any portion thereof, for the day on which the Term Loan or such portion is paid, that any Term Loan that is repaid on the same day on which it is made shall, subject to Section 2.09(a), bear interest for one day. Each determination by the Administrative Agent of an interest rate or fee hereunder shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
Computation of Interest and Fees
.  
provided
 
The Term Loan Borrowing made by each Lender shall be evidenced by one or more accounts or records maintained by such Lender and by the Administrative Agent in the ordinary course of business. The accounts or records maintained by the Administrative Agent and each Lender shall be conclusive absent manifest error of the amount of the Term Loan Borrowing made by the Lenders to the Borrower and the interest and payments thereon. Any failure to so record or any error in doing so shall not, however, limit or otherwise affect the obligation of the Borrower hereunder to pay any amount owing with respect to the Obligations. In the event of any conflict between the accounts and records maintained by any Lender and the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent in respect of such matters, the accounts and records of the Administrative Agent shall control in the absence of manifest error. Upon the request of any Lender made through the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall execute and deliver to such Lender (through the Administrative Agent) a Note, which shall evidence such Lenders Term Loans in addition to such accounts or records. Each Lender may attach schedules to its Note and endorse thereon the date, Type (if applicable), amount and maturity of its Term Loans and payments with respect thereto.
Evidence of Debt
.  
 
.
Payments Generally; Administrative Agents Clawback
 
. All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the Administrative Agents Office in Dollars and in immediately available funds not later than 3:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its Applicable Percentage (or other applicable share as provided herein) of such payment in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lenders Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 3:00 p.m. shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by the Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
General
 
. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender, in immediately available funds with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender or the Borrower with respect to any amount owing under this subsection (b) shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
Payments by Borrower; Presumptions by Administrative Agent
 
 
18
 
. If any Lender makes available to the Administrative Agent funds for any Term Loan to be made by such Lender as provided in the foregoing provisions of this , and such funds are not made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent because the conditions to the Term Loan Borrowing set forth in are not satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall return such funds promptly (in like funds as received from such Lender) to such Lender, without interest.
Failure to Satisfy Conditions Precedent
Article II
Article IV
 
. The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Term Loans and to make payments pursuant to Section 10.04(c) are several and not joint. The failure of any Lender to make any Term Loan, to fund any such participation or to make any payment under Section 10.04(c) on any date required hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its corresponding obligation to do so on such date, and no Lender shall be responsible for the failure of any other Lender to so make its Term Loan, to purchase its participation or to make its payment under Section 10.04(c).
Obligations of Lenders Several
 
. Nothing herein shall be deemed to obligate any Lender to obtain the funds for any Term Loan in any particular place or manner or to constitute a representation by any Lender that it has obtained or will obtain the funds for any Term Loan in any particular place or manner.
Funding Source
 
If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of setoff or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of the Term Loans made by it, resulting in such Lenders receiving payment of a proportion of the aggregate amount of such Term Loans and accrued interest thereon greater than its pro rata share thereof as provided herein, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall (a) notify the Administrative Agent of such fact, and (b) purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Term Loans of the other Lenders, or make such other adjustments as shall be equitable, so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Term Loans and other amounts owing them, that:
Sharing of Payments by Lenders
.  
provided
 
if any such participations or subparticipations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations or subparticipations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest; and
 
the provisions of this Section shall not be construed to apply to (x) any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or (y) any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Term Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof (as to which the provisions of this Section shall apply).
 
The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of setoff and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation.
 
 
19
 
Additional Term Loan; Additional Lenders
.
 
. Provided there exists no Default or Event of Default and no Default or Event of Default would result therefrom, upon notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly notify the Lenders), the Borrower may from time to time request an increase in the aggregate Commitments (an ) by an amount (for all such requests) not exceeding $150,000,000; that (i) any such request for an Increase shall be in a minimum amount of $25,000,000, and (ii) the Borrower may make a maximum of five such requests. At the time of sending such notice, the Borrower (in consultation with the Administrative Agent) shall specify the time period within which each Lender is requested to respond (which shall in no event be less than ten Business Days from the date of delivery of such notice to the Lenders).
Request for Increase
Increase
provided
 
. Each Lender shall notify the Administrative Agent within the applicable time period specified by the Borrower whether or not it agrees to increase its Commitment and, if so, whether by an amount equal to, greater than, or less than its Applicable Percentage of such requested Increase. Any Lender not responding within such time period shall be deemed to have declined to increase its Commitment.
Lender Elections to Increase
 
. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and each Lender of the Lenders responses to each request for an Increase made hereunder. In the event that the aggregate amount of increases to the Commitments of the Lenders consenting to the requested Increase is less than the amount of the requested Increase, to achieve the full amount of a requested Increase and, subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, the Borrower may also invite Eligible Assignees to become additional Lenders () pursuant to a joinder agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel; , that the Borrower may only invite such Additional Lenders after the later (i) of the date on which each existing Lender has notified the Administrative Agent of its decision in accordance with above or (ii) the expiration of the time period for each Lender to respond to the requested Increase.  Any such invitation to such Additional Lenders shall only be with respect to amounts necessary to achieve the full amount of the requested Increase.
Notification by Administrative Agent; Additional Lenders
Additional Lenders
provided
however
clause (b)
 
. If the aggregate Commitments are increased in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall determine the effective date (the ) and the final allocation of such Increase. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the final allocation of such Increase and the Increase Effective Date.  On the Increase Effective Date, each Lender which elected to increase its Commitment and each Additional Lender severally agrees to make a term loan (in the amount of its respective portion of the Increase) to the Borrower in a single advance.
Effective Date and Allocations
Increase Effective Date
 
. As a condition precedent to each Increase, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent a certificate of the Borrower as of the Increase Effective Date (in sufficient copies for each Lender) signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying and attaching the resolutions adopted by the Borrower approving or consenting to such increase, and (ii) certifying that, there has been no event or circumstance since December 31, 2009, that has had or could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (B) both before and after giving effect to the Increase, (1) the Borrower is solvent and (2) the Borrower is in compliance with the financial covenant set forth in Section 7.07 on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the Increase.
Conditions to Effectiveness of Increase
 
 . This Section shall supersede any provisions in or to the contrary.
Conflicting Provisions
Section 2.10
10.01
 
 
20
 
 
.
Taxes
 
. Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be made free and clear of and without reduction or withholding for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes, that if the Borrower shall be required by applicable law to deduct any Indemnified Taxes (including any Other Taxes) from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent or Lender, as the case may be, receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall timely pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payments Free of Taxes
provided
 
. Without limiting the provisions of subsection (a) above, the Borrower shall timely pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Payment of Other Taxes by the Borrower
 
. Without duplication of any additional amounts paid pursuant to Section 3.01(a), the Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, within ten (10) days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) paid by the Administrative Agent and such Lender and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority, that, if the Borrower determines that any such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were not correctly or legally imposed or asserted, the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as applicable, shall allow the Borrower to contest (and shall cooperate in such contest), the imposition of such Tax upon the reasonable request of the Borrower and at the Borrowers expense; , , that the Administrative Agent or the Lender, as applicable, shall not be required to participate in any contest that would, in its reasonable judgment, expose it to a material commercial disadvantage or require it to disclose any information it considers confidential or proprietary. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender, shall be conclusive; that such amounts are determined on a reasonable basis.
Indemnification by the Borrower
provided
provided
however
provided
 
. As soon as reasonably practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Evidence of Payments
 
 
21
 
. Any Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which the Borrower is resident for tax purposes, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate of withholding. In addition, any Lender, if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, shall deliver such other documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements. Each Lender shall promptly provide such forms upon becoming aware of the obsolescence, expiration or invalidity of any form previously delivered by such Lender (unless it is legally unable to do so as a result of a Change in Law) and shall promptly notify the Borrower at any time it determines that any previously delivered forms are no longer valid.
Status of Lenders
 
Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower is resident for tax purposes in the United States, any Foreign Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (in such number of copies as shall be requested by the recipient) on or prior to the date on which such Foreign Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, but only if such Foreign Lender is legally entitled to do so), whichever of the following is applicable:
 
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN claiming eligibility for benefits of an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party,
 
duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI,
 
in the case of a Foreign Lender claiming the benefits of the exemption for portfolio interest under section 881(c) of the Code, (x) a certificate to the effect that such Foreign Lender is not (A) a bank within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(A) of the Code, (B) a 10 percent shareholder of the Borrower within the meaning of section 881(c)(3)(B) of the Code, or (C) a controlled foreign corporation described in section 881(c)(3)(C) of the Code and (y) duly completed copies of Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, or
 
any other form prescribed by applicable law as a basis for claiming exemption from or a reduction in United States Federal withholding tax duly completed together with such supplementary documentation as may be prescribed by applicable law to permit the Borrower to determine the withholding or deduction required to be made.
 
. If the Administrative Agent or any Lender determines, in its reasonable discretion, that it has received a refund of any Taxes or Other Taxes or determines in its sole discretion exercised in good faith that it has obtained the benefit of a credit for Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay to the Borrower an amount equal to such refund or the net benefit attributable to such credit (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section with respect to the Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund or credit), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund or credit), that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund or credit to such Governmental Authority. This subsection shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes that it reasonably deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person.
Treatment of Certain Refunds and Credits
provided
 
 
22
 
If any Lender determines that any Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Rate Loans, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, or any Governmental Authority has imposed material restrictions on the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the London interbank market, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period therefor, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay accrued interest on the amount so prepaid or converted.
Illegality
.  
 
If the Required Lenders determine that for any reason in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the London interbank eurodollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for any requested Interest Period with respect to a proposed Eurodollar Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of funding such Term Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly so notify the Borrower and each Lender. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent (upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending request for a conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a borrowing of Base Rate Loans in the amount specified therein.
Inability to Determine Rates
.  
 
.
Increased Costs
 
. If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs Generally
 
impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan, insurance charge or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended or participated in by, any Lender (except any reserve requirement reflected in the Eurodollar Rate);
 
subject any Lender to any tax of any kind whatsoever with respect to this Agreement or any Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it, or change the basis of taxation of payments to such Lender in respect thereof (except for Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes covered by Section 3.01 and the imposition of, or any change in the rate of, any Excluded Tax payable by such Lender); or
 
impose on any Lender or the London interbank market any other condition, cost or expense affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Rate Loans made by such Lender;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Term Loan), or to increase the cost to such Lender, or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender hereunder (whether of principal, interest or any other amount) then, upon request of such Lender, the Borrower will pay to such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
 
 
23
 
. If any Lender determines that any Change in Law affecting such Lender or any Lending Office of such Lender or such Lenders holding company, if any, regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lenders capital or on the capital of such Lenders holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement, the Commitments of such Lender or the Term Loans made by or held by, such Lender, to a level below that which such Lender or such Lenders holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lenders policies and the policies of such Lenders holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lenders holding company for any such reduction suffered.
Capital Requirements
 
. A certificate of a Lender setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in subsection (a) or (b) of this Section and delivered to the Borrower shall be conclusive absent manifest error; that such determinations are made on a reasonable basis. The Borrower shall pay such Lender, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within ten (10) days after receipt thereof.
Certificates for Reimbursement
provided
 
. Failure or delay on the part of any Lender to demand compensation pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lenders right to demand such compensation, that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this Section for any increased costs incurred or reductions suffered more than six months prior to the date that such Lender notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lenders intention to claim compensation therefor (except that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the six -month period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof).
Delay in Requests
provided
 
Upon written request of any Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent, which shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for requesting such amounts), from time to time, the Borrower shall promptly compensate such Lender for and hold such Lender harmless from any loss, cost or expense incurred by it as a result of:
Compensation for Losses
.  
 
any continuation, conversion, payment or prepayment of any Term Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Term Loan (whether voluntary, mandatory, automatic, by reason of acceleration, or otherwise);
 
any failure by the Borrower (for a reason other than the failure of such Lender to make a Term Loan) to prepay, borrow, continue or convert any Term Loan other than a Base Rate Loan on the date or in the amount notified by the Borrower; or
 
any assignment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan on a day other than the last day of the Interest Period therefor as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 10.13;
 
including any loss or expense arising from the liquidation or reemployment of funds obtained by it to maintain such Term Loan or from fees payable to terminate the deposits from which such funds were obtained. The Borrower shall also pay any customary out-of-pocket administrative fees charged by such Lender in connection with the foregoing.
 
 
24
 
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this Section 3.05, each Lender shall be deemed to have funded each Eurodollar Rate Loan made by it at the Eurodollar Base Rate used in determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Term Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the London interbank eurodollar market for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurodollar Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
 
.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders
 
. If any Lender requests compensation under Section 3.04, or the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 3.01, or if any Lender gives a notice pursuant to Section 3.02, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different Lending Office for funding or booking its Term Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 3.01 or 3.04, as the case may be, in the future, or eliminate the need for the notice pursuant to Section 3.02, as applicable, and (ii) in each case, would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Designation of a Different Lending Office
 
. If any Lender requests compensation under Section 3.04, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 3.01, the Borrower may replace such Lender in accordance with Section 10.13.
Replacement of Lenders
 
All of the Borrowers obligations under this shall survive termination of the Commitments and repayment of all other Obligations hereunder.
Survival
.  
Article III
 
 
The obligation of each Lender to make the Term Loan hereunder is subject to satisfaction of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions of Term Loan Borrowing
.  
 
The Administrative Agents receipt of the following, each of which shall be originals or telecopies (followed promptly by originals) unless otherwise specified, each properly executed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower, each dated the Closing Date (or, in the case of certificates of governmental officials, a recent date before the Closing Date) and each in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders:
 
executed counterparts of this Agreement, sufficient in number for distribution to the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Borrower;
 
a Note executed by the Borrower in favor of each Lender requesting a Note at least two (2) Business Days prior to the Closing Date;
 
such certificates of resolutions or other action, incumbency certificates and/or other certificates of Responsible Officers of the Borrower as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require evidencing the authority of each Responsible Officer thereof authorized to act as a Responsible Officer in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is a party;
 
 
25
 
such documents and certifications as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require to evidence that the Borrower is duly organized or formed, and that the Borrower is validly existing and in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization;
 
an opinion of in-house counsel for the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent;
 
a certificate signed by a Responsible Officer of the Borrower certifying that (A) there has been no event or circumstance since December 31, 2009, that has had or could be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (B) after giving effect to the Transactions, (1) the Borrower is solvent and (2) the Borrower is in compliance with the financial covenant set forth in Section 7.07 on a pro forma basis after giving effect to the Transactions and the funding of the Term Loan;
 
copies of (A) the internally prepared quarterly financial statements of Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for the fiscal quarter ending on March 31, 2010, and (B) the audited consolidated financial statements for Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009; and
 
such other documents as the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders reasonably may require.
 
The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence that all boards of directors, governmental, shareholder and material third party consents and approvals necessary in connection with the Transactions have been obtained and all applicable waiting periods have expired without any action being taken by any authority that could restrain, prevent or impose any material adverse conditions on such Transactions or that could seek or threaten any of the foregoing.
 
Any fees required to be paid on or before the Closing Date shall have been paid.
 
Unless waived by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall have paid all reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent (directly to such counsel if requested by the Administrative Agent) to the extent invoiced prior to or on the Closing Date, plus such additional amounts of such fees, charges and disbursements as shall constitute its reasonable estimate of such fees, charges and disbursements incurred or to be incurred by it through the closing proceedings (provided that such estimate shall not thereafter preclude a final settling of accounts between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent).
 
All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in shall be true and correct.
Article V
 
No Default shall exist, or would result from the Term Loan Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds thereof.
 
Without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 9.04, for purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in this Section 4.01, each Lender that has signed this Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from such Lender prior to the proposed Closing Date specifying its objection thereto.
 
 
26
 
  The obligation of each Lender to make a Term Loan on the Funding Date, or after giving effect to any increase under , is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event
.
Section 2.11
 
at the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Term Loan Borrowing no Default or Event of Default shall exist;
 
at the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Term Loan Borrowing all representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in the Loan Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects (other than those representations and warranties that are expressly qualified by an Material Adverse Effect or other materiality, in which case such representations and warranties shall be true and correct in all respects, on and as of the date of such Term Loan Borrowing in each case before and after giving effect thereto;
 
since December 31, 2009, there shall have been no change which has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and
 
the Borrower shall have delivered the required Term Loan Notice.
 
 
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders that:
 
The Borrower is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, is duly qualified to transact business in every jurisdiction where the failure to qualify would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and has all corporate powers and all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals required to carry on its business as now conducted except to the extent that failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Existence, Qualification and Power
.  
 
The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Agreement, the Notes and the other Loan Documents (a) are within the Borrowers corporate powers, (b) have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action, (c) require no approval, consent, exemption, authorization, or other action by, or notice to, or filing with, any Governmental Authority or any other Person, except as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (d) do not violate or constitute a default under, (i) any provision of applicable law or regulation, (ii) any material agreement, judgment, injunction, order, decree or other material instrument binding upon the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or (iii) the Organization Documents of the Borrower, and (e) do not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any of the material assets of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except in each case referred to in clauses (d)(i), (d)(ii) or (e) to the extent such conflict, breach or violation would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Authorization; No Contravention; Governmental Authorization
.  
 
This Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with its terms, and the Notes and the other Loan Documents, when executed and delivered in accordance with this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable in accordance with their respective terms, that the enforceability hereof and thereof is subject in each case to general principles of equity and to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors rights generally, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
Binding Effect
.  
provided
 
 
27
 
.
Financial Statements; No Material Adverse Effect
 
The audited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 (i) was prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein; and (ii) fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein.
 
The unaudited consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries dated March 31, 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income or operations, shareholders equity and cash flows for the fiscal quarter ended on that date (i) were prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied throughout the period covered thereby, except as otherwise expressly noted therein, and (ii) fairly present in all material respects the financial condition of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the date thereof and their results of operations for the period covered thereby, subject, in the case of clauses (i) and (ii), to the absence of footnotes and to normal year-end audit adjustments.
 
Since December 31, 2009, there has been no event or circumstance, either individually or in the aggregate, that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Except as disclosed in any SEC filings of the Borrower made prior to the Closing Date, there is no action, suit or proceeding pending, or to the knowledge of the Borrower threatened in writing, against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner draws into question the validity of or which involves this Agreement, the Notes or any other Loan Documents.
Litigation
.  
 
There have been filed on behalf of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries all Federal income tax returns and all other material income, excise, property and other tax returns which are required to be filed by them and all taxes due pursuant to such returns or pursuant to any assessment received by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary have been paid, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted and for which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with GAAP.
Taxes
.  
 
.
ERISA Compliance
 
With respect to each Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan), the Borrower and each member of the Controlled Group have fulfilled their obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code and are in compliance in all material respects with the presently applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code, and have not incurred any material liability to the PBGC (other than for premiums due but not yet delinquent under Section 4007 of ERISA) or a Plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) under Title IV of ERISA (other than contributions in the ordinary course).
 
Neither the Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has incurred any withdrawal liability with respect to any Multiemployer Plan under Title IV of ERISA that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, and no such liability is expected to be incurred that would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
28
 
 
.
Margin Regulations; Investment Company Act
 
The Borrower is not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of purchasing or carrying margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB), or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock.
 
The Borrower is not and is not required to be registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
 
No report, financial statement, certificate or other information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby and the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder or under any other Loan Document (in each case, as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), taken as a whole and including the information contained in any filings made with the SEC by the Borrower contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading at the time made; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by the Borrower to be reasonable at the time.
Disclosure
.  
provided
 
The Borrower and its Subsidiaries are in compliance in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions, executive orders and decrees applicable to it or to its properties, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted or (b) the failure to comply therewith, either individually or in the aggregate, would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
.  
 
The Borrowers true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
Taxpayer Identification Number
.  
Schedule 10.02
 
Neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries is an enemy or an ally of the enemy within the meaning of Section 2 of the Trading with the Enemy Act of the United States of America (50 U.S.C. App.  1 .), as amended (the ). Neither the Borrower nor any or its Subsidiaries is in violation of (a) the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, (b) any of the foreign assets control regulations of the United States Treasury Department (31 CFR, Subtitle B, Chapter V, as amended) or any enabling legislation or executive order relating thereto or (c) the Act. The Borrower is not (i) a blocked person described in Section 1 of the Anti-Terrorism Order or (ii) to the best of its knowledge, engages in any dealings or transactions, or is otherwise associated, with any such blocked person.
Anti-Terrorism Laws
.  
et seq
Trading with the Enemy Act
 
.
Compliance with OFAC Rules and Regulations
 
None of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries or its Affiliates is in violation of and shall not violate any of the country or list based economic and trade sanctions administered and enforced by OFAC that are described or referenced at http://www.ustreas.gov/offices/enforcement/ofac/ or as otherwise published from time to time.
 
None of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries or its Affiliates (i) is a Sanctioned Person or a Sanctioned Entity, (ii) has a more than 10% of its assets located in Sanctioned Entities, or (iii) derives more than 10% of its operating income from investments in, or transactions with Sanctioned Persons or Sanctioned Entities. The proceeds of the Term Loan will not be used and have not been used to fund any operations in, finance any investments or activities in or make any payments to, a Sanctioned Person or a Sanctioned Entity.
 
 
29
 
Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, 15 U.S.C.  78dd-1, , and any foreign counterpart thereto. None of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries has made a payment, offering, or promise to pay, or authorized the payment of, money or anything of value (a) in order to assist in obtaining or retaining business for or with, or directing business to, any foreign official, foreign political party, party official or candidate for foreign political office, (b) to a foreign official, foreign political party or party official or any candidate for foreign political office, and (c) with the intent to induce the recipient to misuse his or her official position to direct business wrongfully to the Borrower or its Subsidiary or to any other Person, in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, 15 U.S.C.  78dd-1,
Compliance with FCPA
.  
et seq.
et seq.
 
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Term Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall:
 
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
Financial Statements
.  
 
as soon as available, but in any event within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year of the Borrower, a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal year and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders equity and cash flows for such fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all accompanied by a report thereon of a Registered Public Accounting Firm, with such certification to be free of a going concern qualification or qualification as to the scope of audit; and
 
as soon as available, but in any event within sixty (60) days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Borrower (commencing with the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010), (i) a consolidated balance sheet of the Borrower and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of such fiscal quarter and the related statement of income, and (ii) a statement of cash flows for the portion of the fiscal year ended at the end of such fiscal quarter, setting forth in each case in comparative form, respectively, the figures for the corresponding fiscal quarter and the corresponding portion of the previous fiscal year, all certified (subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes) as to fairness of presentation and GAAP by the chief financial officer or the chief accounting officer of the Borrower.
 
As to any information contained in materials furnished pursuant to Section 6.02(b), the Borrower shall not be separately required to furnish such information under clause (a) or (b) above, and to the extent that the Borrower has filed a Form 10K or Form 10Q for the respective financial period with the SEC, it shall be deemed to have satisfied clauses (a) and (b) above.
 
Deliver to the Administrative Agent and each Lender, in form and detail satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders:
Certificates; Other Information
.  
 
concurrently with the delivery of the financial statements referred to in Sections 6.01(a) and (b) (commencing with the delivery of the financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2010), a duly completed Compliance Certificate signed by the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer or controller of the Borrower;
 
 
30
 
promptly after the same are available, copies of each annual report, proxy or financial statement or other report or communication sent to the stockholders of the Borrower, and copies of all annual, regular, periodic and special reports and registration statements which the Borrower may file with the SEC under Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and not otherwise required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant hereto; and
 
promptly, such additional information regarding the business, financial or corporate affairs of the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of the Loan Documents, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
 
Documents required to be delivered pursuant to Section 6.01(a) or (b) or Section 6.02(b) (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrowers website on the Internet, at www.sec.gov; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrowers behalf on an Internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: upon the request of the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that makes a written request to the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender. Except for Compliance Certificates, the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
provided
 
The Borrower hereby acknowledges that (a) the Administrative Agent and/or the Arrangers will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Borrower hereunder (collectively, ) by posting the Borrower Materials on SyndTrak or another similar electronic system (the ) and (b) certain of the Lenders may be public-side Lenders (i.e., Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities) (each, a ). The Borrower hereby agrees that so long as the Borrower is the issuer of any outstanding debt or equity securities that are registered or issued pursuant to a private offering or is actively contemplating issuing any such securities (w) all Borrower Materials that are to be made available to Public Lenders shall be clearly and conspicuously marked PUBLIC which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word PUBLIC shall appear prominently on the first page thereof; (x) by marking Borrower Materials PUBLIC, the Borrower shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers and the Lenders to treat such Borrower Materials as not containing any material non-public information with respect to the Borrower or its securities for purposes of United States Federal and state securities laws (, , that to the extent such Borrower Materials constitute Information, they shall be treated as set forth in Section 10.07); (y) all Borrower Materials marked PUBLIC are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated Public Investor; and (z) the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers shall be entitled to treat any Borrower Materials that are not marked PUBLIC as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not designated Public Investor. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Borrower shall be under no obligation to mark any Borrower Materials PUBLIC.
Borrower Materials
Platform
Public Lender
provided
however
 
Promptly, but in any event, within five (5) Business Days of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower becoming aware thereof, notify the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
Notices
.  
 
of the occurrence of any Default that is continuing; and
 
 
31
 
of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, including (i) breach or non-performance of, or any default under, a contractual obligation of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (ii) any dispute, litigation, investigation, proceeding or suspension between the Borrower or any Subsidiary and any Governmental Authority; or (iii) the commencement of, or any material development in, any litigation or proceeding affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary, including pursuant to any applicable Environmental Laws.
 
Each notice pursuant to this Section 6.03 shall be accompanied by a statement of a Responsible Officer of the Borrower setting forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and stating what action the Borrower has taken and proposes to take with respect thereto. Each notice pursuant to Section 6.03(a) shall describe with reasonable particularity any and all provisions of this Agreement and any other Loan Document that have been breached.
 
Pay and discharge all its material obligations and liabilities prior to such obligations or liabilities being delinquent, including all Federal income taxes and all other material tax liabilities, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and adequate reserves in accordance with GAAP are being maintained by the Borrower or such Subsidiary, except where the failure to so pay, discharge, contest or maintain reserves would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Obligations
.  
 
.
Preservation of Existence
 
Preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its legal existence under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation except in a transaction permitted hereunder;
 
preserve, renew and maintain in full force and effect its good standing under the Laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation, except where the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and
 
take all reasonable action to maintain all rights, privileges, permits, licenses and franchises necessary in the normal conduct of its business, except to the extent that the Borrower determines such action is not necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Maintain, preserve and protect all of its material properties and equipment necessary in the operation of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and make all necessary repairs thereto and renewals and replacements thereof, except where the Borrower determines such action is not necessary in the conduct of the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, or the failure to do so would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Maintenance of Properties
.  
 
Maintain insurance, or adequate reserves in lieu of insurance, against loss to all property owned by it material to its business in comparable amounts and against such risks as are usually insured against in the same general locale by companies of established repute engaged in the same or similar business.
Self-Insurance
.  
 
Comply in all material respects with the requirements of all Laws and all orders, writs, injunctions and decrees applicable to it or to its business or property, except in such instances in which (a) such requirement of Law or order, writ, injunction or decree is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings diligently conducted; or (b) the failure to comply therewith would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws
.  
 
 
32
 
.
Books and Records; Inspection Rights
 
Keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities sufficient to permit the preparation of statements in conformity with GAAP; and
 
permit representatives and independent contractors of the Administrative Agent and each Lender to visit and inspect any of its properties, to examine extracts from its corporate, financial and operating records, and make copies thereof or abstracts therefrom, and to discuss its affairs, finances and accounts with its officers and independent public accountants, all at the expense of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, as applicable, to the extent reasonably requested and at such reasonable times during normal business hours and upon reasonable advance notice to the Borrower, but not more frequently than once per every twelve (12) month period, , , that when an Event of Default exists the Administrative Agent or any Lender (or any of their respective representatives or independent contractors) may do any of the foregoing at the expense of the Borrower as often as may be reasonably requested.
provided
however
 
Use the proceeds of the Term Loan to refinance existing Indebtedness and for general corporate purposes.
Use of Proceeds
.  
 
 
So long as any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, any Term Loan or other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied, the Borrower shall not, directly or indirectly:
 
Create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien upon any of its property, assets or revenues, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, other than the following:
Liens
.  
 
Liens pursuant to any Loan Document;
 
Liens existing on the date of this Agreement;
 
Liens on any asset securing Indebtedness incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing, refinancing or refunding all or any part of the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such asset; that such Lien attaches to such asset concurrently with or within eighteen (18) months after the acquisition or completion of construction thereof;
provided
 
Liens on any asset of any Person existing at the time such Person is merged or consolidated with or into the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such event;
 
Liens existing on any asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Borrower and not created in contemplation of such acquisition;
 
Liens in favor of any Subsidiary;
 
Liens arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal, refunding or replacement of any Indebtedness secured by any Lien permitted by any of the foregoing paragraphs of this Section 7.01; that the amount of such Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is not increased;
provided
 
 
33
 
Liens incidental to the conduct of its business or the ownership of its assets which (i) do not secure Indebtedness and (ii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business;
 
Liens on margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U issued by the FRB);
 
Liens on Receivables pursuant to a bona fide Receivables Securitization;
 
Liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing subsections of this Section 7.01 securing Indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding not to exceed 20% of Shareholders Equity; and
 
Permitted Encumbrances.
 
Merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into any other Person (other than the Transactions), that the Borrower may enter into any such transaction with another Person so long as (a) the Borrower is the surviving entity, or the surviving entity is a Person is organized under the laws of the United States of America or one of its States or Commonwealths or the District of Columbia and expressly assumes in writing the obligations set forth under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (b) such Person is engaged in lines of business substantially similar to those lines of business conducted by the Borrower on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto or logical extensions thereof, (c) prior to giving effect to such transaction, each of S&P and Moodys shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a ratings letter indicating that, after giving effect to such transaction, the Surviving Person shall have a Debt Rating of not less than BBB-/Baa3, as applicable, and (d) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Fundamental Changes
.  
provided
 
Sell, lease or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, unless (a) such sale, lease or other transfer is to the Borrower or a Wholly Owned Subsidiary, or (b) such sale or other transfer consists of the sale of Receivables pursuant to a Receivables Securitization.
Sales of Assets
.  
 
Suffer or permit the dissolution or liquidation of any Significant Subsidiary, except (a) in connection with a corporate reorganization of the Borrower permitted by Section 7.02, or (b) in connection with the sale of a Subsidiary or its assets permitted pursuant to Section 7.03.
Dissolution
.  
 
Use the proceeds of the Term Loan Borrowing, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB) or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose.
Use of Proceeds
.  
 
The Borrower will not, directly or indirectly, amend or modify the Outstanding Credit Facilities or the Credit Documents (including any replacement or refinancing thereof) to include one or more Additional Covenants or Additional Defaults, unless in each case the Borrower contemporaneously executes an amendment to this Agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Required Lenders, to include such Additional Covenants or Additional Defaults herein; , that to the extent that the Borrower shall enter into, assume or otherwise become bound by or obligated under such amendment or agreement containing one or more Additional Covenants or Additional Defaults without amending this Agreement to include such Additional Covenants or Additional Defaults, the terms of this Agreement shall nonetheless, without any further action on the part of the Borrower or any of the Lenders or Administrative Agent, be deemed to be amended automatically to include each Additional Covenant and each Additional Default contained in such amendment or agreement.
Most Favored Lender Status
.
provided
 
 
34
 
Permit the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization at any time to be greater than 0.65 to 1.00; , , that if in connection with a Specified Acquisition, (i) Consolidated Debt has increased as a result of such Specified Acquisition from the amount thereof immediately prior to such Specified Acquisition and (ii) the Administrative Agent has received a Specified Acquisition Notice within ten (10) days after consummation of such Specified Acquisition, then, for a period of 180 consecutive days following the consummation of such Specified Acquisition, the additional Consolidated Debt incurred or assumed in connection with such Specified Acquisition shall be excluded from Consolidated Debt for purposes of calculating the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization so long as such ratio, if calculated without such exclusion, would not exceed 0.75 to 1.00; , , , that such additional Consolidated Debt shall not be excluded from such ratio if in connection with the related Specified Acquisition, the Borrowers Debt Rating is suspended, withdrawn or reduced to below the Reference Level. For purposes of calculating the ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization, Consolidated Debt shall exclude Hybrid Securities to the extent such excluded amount does not exceed 15% of Total Capitalization at as such time.
Ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization
.  
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
For purposes of this Section 7.07:
 
Hybrid Securities means long-term securities issued by either the Borrower or any Subsidiary thereof that (i) are contractually subordinated to senior indebtedness, (ii) mature at least ten years after the issuance thereof, (iii) allow the issuer to temporarily defer the payment of interest, and (iv) receive some degree of equity classification by S&P at the time such securities were issued;
 
Reference Level means a Debt Rating of BBB or better by S&P or Baa2 or better by Moodys; that if only one of the foregoing Debt Ratings is satisfied, the other Debt Rating is not lower than BBB- by S&P or Baa3 by Moodys;
provided
 
a Specified Acquisition means any acquisition by the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower of any Person (the Specified Acquisition Target) (or substantially all of the assets of any Person or division thereof), that (x) is engaged in lines of business substantially similar to those lines of business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on the date hereof or any business substantially related or incidental thereto or logical extensions thereof and (y) such Specified Acquisition Targets board of directors have not objected to such acquisition; and
 
a Specified Acquisition Notice means a notice delivered by the Borrower notifying the Administrative Agent of a Specified Acquisition and stating that the conditions in clauses (i) and (ii) to the proviso to the first sentence of Section 7.07 above have been satisfied.
 
 
Any of the following shall constitute an Event of Default:
Events of Default
.  
 
. The Borrower fails to pay (i) when and as due and payable, any amount of principal of any Term Loan, or (ii) within five (5) Business Days after the same becomes due, any interest on any Term Loan, or any fee due hereunder, or (iii) within five (5) Business Days after the same becomes due, any other amount payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document; or
Non-Payment
 
 
35
 
. The Borrower fails to perform or observe any term, covenant or agreement contained in any of Section 6.01 (within fifteen (15) days after any financial statements required to be delivered under Section 6.01 are due), 6.03, 6.05 (with respect to existence only), 6.09(b) or 6.10 or ; or
Specific Covenants
Article VII
 
. The Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those covered by subsection (a) or (b) above) and such failure shall not have been cured within thirty (30) days after the earlier to occur of (i) written notice thereof has been given to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent at the request of any Lender and (ii) a Responsible Officer otherwise becomes aware of any such failure; or
Other Defaults
 
. Any representation, warranty, certification or statement of fact made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower herein, in any other Loan Document, or in any document delivered in connection herewith or therewith shall be incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; or
Representations and Warranties
 
. (i)  the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (other than the Notes) if the aggregate amount of such payment is equal to or greater than $25,000,000 when due (after any applicable grace period); or (ii) any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment in respect of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations, in each case that are Guaranteed by the Borrower, if the aggregate amount of such payment is equal to or greater than $25,000,000 when due (after any applicable grace period); or (iii) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations in the aggregate outstanding (other than the Notes) equal to or greater than $100,000,000 of the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or put of such Indebtedness to the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary) or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holders of such Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (or commitment with respect thereto) or any Person acting on such holders behalf to accelerate the maturity thereof or terminate any such commitment (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or put of such Indebtedness to the Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary that is a Wholly Owned Subsidiary); or (iv) any event or condition shall occur which results in the acceleration of the maturity of Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations in the aggregate outstanding (other than the Notes) of any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary the Guaranteed Amount of which is equal to or greater than $100,000,000 (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or put of such Indebtedness to any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary) or enables (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would enable) the holders of such Indebtedness, SWAP Obligations or Synthetic Lease Obligations (or commitment with respect thereto) or any Person acting on such holders behalf to accelerate the maturity thereof or terminate any such commitment (including, without limitation, any required mandatory prepayment or put of such Indebtedness to any Significant Subsidiary that is a Partially Owned Subsidiary); or
Cross-Default
 
. The Borrower or any of its Significant Subsidiaries institutes or consents to the institution of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law, or makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors; or applies for or consents to the appointment of any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer for it or for all or any substantial part of its property; or any receiver, trustee, custodian, conservator, liquidator, rehabilitator or similar officer is appointed without the application or consent of such Person and the appointment continues undischarged or unstayed for sixty (60) calendar days; or any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law relating to any such Person or to all or any substantial part of its property is instituted without the consent of such Person and continues undismissed or unstayed for sixty (60) calendar days, or an order for relief is entered in any such proceeding; or
Insolvency Proceedings, Etc
 
 
36
 
. (i) The Borrower or any Significant Subsidiary becomes unable or admits in writing its inability or fails generally to pay its debts as they become due, or (ii) any writ or warrant of attachment or execution or similar process is issued or levied against all or substantial part of the property of any such Person and is not released, vacated, discharged or fully bonded within thirty (30) days after its issue or levy; or
Inability to Pay Debts; Attachment
 
. One or more judgments or orders for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered against the Borrower or any Subsidiary and such judgment or order shall continue unsatisfied and unstayed for a period of thirty (30) days (i) after the entry of any such judgment or order, or (ii) after any appeal in good faith of such judgment or order so long as during such appeal any execution of such judgment or order is stayed; or
Judgments
 
. (i) An ERISA Event occurs with respect to a Plan or Multiemployer Plan which has resulted or is reasonably likely to result in liability of the Borrower under Title IV of ERISA to the Plan, Multiemployer Plan or the PBGC in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000; or (ii) the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate fails to pay when due, after the expiration of any applicable grace period, any installment payment with respect to its withdrawal liability under Section 4201 of ERISA under a Multiemployer Plan in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000.
ERISA
 
If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Administrative Agent shall, at the request of, or may, with the consent of, the Required Lenders, take any or all of the following actions:
Remedies Upon Event of Default
.  
 
declare the commitment of each Lender to make Term Loans to be terminated, whereupon such commitments and obligation shall be terminated;
 
declare the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Term Loans, all interest accrued and unpaid thereon, and all other amounts owing or payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document to be immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived by the Borrower; and
 
exercise on behalf of itself, the Lenders all rights and remedies available to it, the Lenders under the Loan Documents;
 
, , that upon the occurrence of an actual or deemed entry of an order for relief with respect to the Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code of the United States, the unpaid principal amount of all outstanding Term Loans and all interest and other amounts as aforesaid shall automatically become due and payable, in each case without further act of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
provided
however
 
After the exercise of remedies provided for in Section 8.02 (or after the Term Loans have automatically become immediately due and payable), any amounts received on account of the Obligations shall be applied by the Administrative Agent in the following order:
Application of Funds
.  
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities, expenses and other amounts (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the Administrative Agent and amounts payable under ) payable to the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such;
First
Article III
 
 
37
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting fees, indemnities and other amounts (other than principal, interest) payable to the Lenders (including fees, charges and disbursements of counsel to the respective Lenders and amounts payable under ), ratably among them in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause Second payable to them;
Second
Article III
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting accrued and interest on the Term Loan and other Obligations, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause Third payable to them;
Third
 
, to payment of that portion of the Obligations constituting unpaid principal of the Term Loan, ratably among the Lenders in proportion to the respective amounts described in this clause Fourth held by them; and
Fourth
 
, the balance, if any, after all of the Obligations have been indefeasibly paid in full, to the Borrower or as otherwise required by Law.
Last
 
 
Each of the Lenders hereby irrevocably appoints SunTrust to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, and the Borrower shall not have rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
Appointment and Authority
.  
 
The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term Lender or Lenders shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity. Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Rights as a Lender
.  
 
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent:
Exculpatory Provisions
.  
 
shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing;
 
shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby or by the other Loan Documents that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise as directed in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law; and
provided
 
 
38
 
 
shall not, except as expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents, have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates that is communicated to or obtained by the Person serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 10.01 and 8.02) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until notice describing such Default is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender.
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Article IV
 
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Term Loan, that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Term Loan. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Administrative Agent
.  
 
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of this Article shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent.
Delegation of Duties
.  
 
39
 
The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within thirty (30) days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then, unless other arrangements satisfactory to the Administrative Agent have been made, such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successors appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section). The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agents resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.04 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Resignation of Administrative Agent
.  
provided
 
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender or any of their Related Parties and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
.  
 
Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, none of the Sole Bookrunner, Joint Lead Arrangers, Syndication Agents, Documentation Agents or Managing Agent listed on the cover page hereof shall have any powers, duties or responsibilities under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent or a Lender hereunder.
No Other Duties, Etc
.  
 
In case of the pendency of any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or any other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Term Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
Administrative Agent May File Proofs of Claim
.  
 
to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Term Loans and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders and the Administrative Agent under Sections 2.10 and 10.04) allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
 
40
 
to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same;
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under Sections 2.10 and 10.04.
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
 
 
No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, and no consent to any departure by the Borrower, shall be effective unless in writing signed by the Required Lenders and the Borrower and acknowledged by the Administrative Agent, and each such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given; , , that no such amendment, waiver or consent shall:
Amendments, Etc
.  
provided
however
 
waive any condition set forth in Section 4.01 without the written consent of each Lender;
 
postpone any date fixed by this Agreement or any other Loan Document for any payment or mandatory prepayment of principal, interest, fees or other amounts due to the Lenders (or any of them) hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby;
 
reduce the principal of, or the rate of interest specified herein on, any Term Loan, or (subject to clause (iv) of the second proviso to this Section 10.01) any fees or other amounts payable hereunder or under any other Loan Document without the written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby; , , that only the consent of the Required Lenders shall be necessary to amend the definition of Default Rate or to waive any obligation of the Borrower to pay interest at the Default Rate;
provided
however
 
change Section 2.10 or Section 8.03 in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby without the written consent of each Lender; or change any provision of this Section or the definition of Required Lenders or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to amend, waive or otherwise modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender;
 
and, , , that (i) no amendment, waiver or consent shall, unless in writing and signed by the Administrative Agent in addition to the Lenders required above, affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent under this Agreement or any other Loan Document; and (ii) the Fee Letter may be amended, or rights or privileges thereunder waived, in a writing executed only by the parties thereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, no Defaulting Lender shall have any right to approve or disapprove any amendment, waiver or consent hereunder, except that the Commitment of such Lender may not be increased or extended without the consent of such Lender.
provided
further
 
41
 
.
Notices; Effectiveness; Electronic Communication
 
. Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and except as provided in subsection (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopier as follows, and all notices and other communications expressly permitted hereunder to be given by telephone shall be made to the applicable telephone number, as follows:
Notices Generally
 
if to the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified for such Person on ; and
Schedule 10.02
 
if to any other Lender, to the address, telecopier number, electronic mail address or telephone number specified in its Administrative Questionnaire.
 
Notices sent by hand or overnight courier service, or mailed by certified or registered mail, shall be deemed to have been given when received; notices sent by telecopier shall be deemed to have been given when sent (except that, if not given during normal business hours for the recipient, shall be deemed to have been given at the opening of business on the next business day for the recipient). Notices delivered through electronic communications to the extent provided in subsection (b) below, shall be effective as provided in such subsection (b).
 
. Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communication (including e-mail and Internet or intranet websites) pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent, that the foregoing shall not apply to notices to any Lender pursuant to if such Lender has notified the Administrative Agent that it is incapable of receiving notices under such Article by electronic communication. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it, that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications.
Electronic Communications
provided
Article II
provided
 
Unless the Administrative Agent otherwise prescribes, (i) notices and other communications sent to an e-mail address shall be deemed received upon the senders receipt of an acknowledgement from the intended recipient (such as by the return receipt requested function, as available, return e-mail or other written acknowledgement), that if such notice or other communication is not sent during the normal business hours of the recipient, such notice or communication shall be deemed to have been sent at the opening of business on the next Business Day for the recipient, and (ii) notices or communications posted to an Internet or intranet website shall be deemed received upon the deemed receipt by the intended recipient at its e-mail address as described in the foregoing clause (i) of notification that such notice or communication is available and identifying the website address therefor.
provided
 
42
 
. THE PLATFORM IS PROVIDED AS IS AND AS AVAILABLE. THE AGENT PARTIES (AS DEFINED BELOW) DO NOT WARRANT THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE ADEQUACY OF THE PLATFORM, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM LIABILITY FOR ERRORS IN OR OMISSIONS FROM THE BORROWER MATERIALS. NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING ANY WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS OR FREEDOM FROM VIRUSES OR OTHER CODE DEFECTS, IS MADE BY ANY AGENT PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH THE BORROWER MATERIALS OR THE PLATFORM. In no event shall the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties (collectively, the ) have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses of any kind (whether in tort, contract or otherwise) arising out of the Borrowers or the Administrative Agents transmission of Borrower Materials through the Internet, except to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Agent Party; , , that in no event shall any Agent Party have any liability to the Borrower, any Lender or any other Person for indirect, special, incidental, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages).
The Platform
Agent Parties
provided
however
 
. Each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. Each other Lender may change its address, telecopier or telephone number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. In addition, each Lender agrees to notify the Administrative Agent from time to time to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record (i) an effective address, contact name, telephone number, telecopier number and electronic mail address to which notices and other communications may be sent and (ii) accurate wire instructions for `such Lender.
Change of Address, Etc
 
. The Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely and act upon any notices (including telephonic Term Loan Notices) purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower even if (i) such notices were not made in a manner specified herein, were incomplete or were not preceded or followed by any other form of notice specified herein, or (ii) the terms thereof, as understood by the recipient, varied from any confirmation thereof. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Related Parties of each of them from all losses, costs, expenses and liabilities resulting from the reliance by such Person on each notice purportedly given by or on behalf of the Borrower, except to the extent that such losses, claims, expenses or liabilities are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by a final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Related Party. All telephonic notices to and other telephonic communications with the Administrative Agent may be recorded by the Administrative Agent, and each of the parties hereto hereby consents to such recording.
Reliance by Administrative Agent and Lenders
 
No failure by any Lender or the Administrative Agent to exercise, and no delay by any such Person in exercising, any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, remedy, power or privilege. The rights, remedies, powers and privileges herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights, remedies, powers and privileges provided by law.
No Waiver; Cumulative Remedies
.  
 
.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver
 
. The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of one counsel for the Administrative Agent), in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated),and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent or any Lender (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent or any Lender) in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights (A) in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, including its rights under this Section, or (B) in connection with the Term Loans made hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Term Loans.
Costs and Expenses
 
43
 
. The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof), each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an ) against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities and related expenses (including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee), incurred by any Indemnitee or asserted against any Indemnitee by any third party or by the Borrower arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby or thereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or thereunder, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or, in the case of the Administrative Agent (and any sub-agent thereof) and its Related Parties only, the administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) any Term Loan or the use or proposed use of the proceeds therefrom, or (iii) any actual or prospective claim, penalty, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory, whether brought by a third party or by the Borrower, and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, penalties, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or (y) result from a claim brought by the Borrower against an Indemnitee for breach in bad faith of such Indemnitees obligations hereunder or under any other Loan Document, if the Borrower has obtained a final and nonappealable judgment in its favor on such claim as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
Indemnification by the Borrower
Indemnitee
provided
 
. To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under subsection (a) or (b) of this Section to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof) or any Related Party of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or such Related Party, as the case may be, such Lenders Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in its capacity as such, or against any Related Party of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) in connection with such capacity. The obligations of the Lenders under this subsection (c) are subject to the provisions of Section 2.09(d).
Reimbursement by Lenders
provided
 
. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, any Term Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof. No Indemnitee referred to in subsection (b) above shall be liable for any damages arising from the use by unintended recipients of any information or other materials distributed to such unintended recipients by such Indemnitee through telecommunications, electronic or other information transmission systems in connection with this Agreement or the other Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby other than for direct or actual damages resulting from the gross negligence of willful misconduct of such Indemnitee as determined by a final and nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Waiver of Consequential Damages, Etc
 
44
 
. All amounts due under this Section shall be payable not later than ten (10) Business Days after demand therefor.
Payments
 
. The agreements in this Section shall survive the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the replacement of any Lender, the termination of the Commitment and the repayment, satisfaction or discharge of all the other Obligations.
Survival
 
To the extent that any payment by or on behalf of the Borrower is made to the Administrative Agent or any Lender, or the Administrative Agent or any Lender exercises its right of setoff, and such payment or the proceeds of such setoff or any part thereof is subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required (including pursuant to any settlement entered into by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in its discretion) to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party, in connection with any proceeding under any Debtor Relief Law or otherwise, then to the extent of such recovery, the obligation or part thereof originally intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continued in full force and effect as if such payment had not been made or such setoff had not occurred. The obligations of the Lenders shall survive the payment in full of the Obligations and the termination of this Agreement.
Payments Set Aside
.  
 
.
Successors and Assigns
 
. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and each Lender and no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder except (i) to an assignee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, (ii) by way of participation in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of this Section, or (iii) by way of pledge or assignment of a security interest subject to the restrictions of subsection (f) of this Section (and any other attempted assignment or transfer by any party hereto shall be null and void). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, Participants to the extent provided in subsection (d) of this Section and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
Successors and Assigns Generally
 
. Any Lender may at any time assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Term Loans at the time owing to it); that any such assignment shall be subject to the following conditions:
Assignments by Lenders
provided
 
.
Minimum Amounts
 
in the case of an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lenders Term Loans at the time owing to it or in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund, no minimum amount need be assigned; and
 
45
 
in any case not described in subsection (b)(i)(A) of this Section, the aggregate amount of the Commitment (which for this purpose includes Term Loans outstanding thereunder) or, if the Commitment is not then in effect, the principal outstanding balance of the Term Loans of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment, determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent or, if Trade Date is specified in the Assignment and Assumption, as of the Trade Date, shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Administrative Agent and, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower otherwise consents (each such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); , , that concurrent assignments to members of an Assignee Group and concurrent assignments from members of an Assignee Group to a single Eligible Assignee (or to an Eligible Assignee and members of its Assignee Group) will be treated as a single assignment for purposes of determining whether such minimum amount has been met.
provided
however
 
. Each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement with respect to the Term Loans assigned.
Proportionate Amounts
 
. No consent shall be required for any assignment except to the extent required by subsection (b)(i)(B) of this Section and, in addition:
Required Consents
 
the consent of the Borrower (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required unless (1) an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at the time of such assignment or (2) such assignment is to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund; and
 
the consent of the Administrative Agent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) shall be required if such assignment is to be a Person that is not a Lender, an Affiliate of such Lender or an Approved Fund with respect to such Lender.
 
. The parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee in the amount of $3,500; , , that the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, elect to waive such processing and recordation fee in the case of any assignment. The assignee, if it is not a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire.
Assignment and Assumption
provided
however
 
. No such assignment shall be made to the Borrower or any of the Borrowers Affiliates or Subsidiaries.
No Assignment to Borrower
 
. No such assignment shall be made to a natural person.
No Assignment to Natural Persons
 
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto) but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 3.01, 3.04, 3.05, and 10.04 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment. Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
 
46
 
. The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at the Administrative Agents Office a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Term Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive absent manifest error, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
 
. Any Lender may at any time, without the consent of, or notice to, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, sell participations to any Person (other than a natural person or the Borrower or any of the Borrowers Affiliates or Subsidiaries) (each, a ) in all or a portion of such Lenders rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and/or the Term Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lenders obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lenders rights and obligations under this Agreement.
Participations
Participant
provided
 
Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, waiver or other modification described in the first proviso to Section 10.01 that adversely affects such Participant. Subject to subsection (e) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 3.01, 3.04 and 3.05 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.08 as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.10 as though it were a Lender.
provided
provided
 
. A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 3.01 or 3.04 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrowers prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 3.01 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 3.01(e) as though it were a Lender.
Limitations upon Participant Rights
 
. Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement (including under its Note, if any) to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
Certain Pledges
provided
 
. The words execution, signed, signature, and words of like import in any Assignment and Assumption shall be deemed to include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity or enforceability as a manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping system, as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law, including the Federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, the New York State Electronic Signatures and Records Act, or any other similar state laws based on the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act.
Electronic Execution of Assignments
 
47
 
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or any of its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Loan Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Loan Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to the Borrower and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
Treatment of Certain Information; Confidentiality
.  
 
For purposes of this Section, Information means all information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
provided
 
Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable Law, including Federal and state securities Laws.
 
If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of their respective Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final, in whatever currency) at any time held and other obligations (in whatever currency) at any time owing by such Lender or any such Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any and all of the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement or any other Loan Document to such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement or any other Loan Document and although such obligations of the Borrower may be contingent or unmatured or are owed to a branch or office of such Lender different from the branch or office holding such deposit or obligated on such indebtedness. The rights of each Lender and their respective Affiliates under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) that such Lender or their respective Affiliates may have. Each Lender agrees to notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent promptly after any such setoff and application, that the failure to give such notice shall not affect the validity of such setoff and application.
Right of Setoff
.  
provided
 
48
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any Loan Document, the interest paid or agreed to be paid under the Loan Documents shall not exceed the maximum rate of non-usurious interest permitted by applicable Law (the ). If the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall receive interest in an amount that exceeds the Maximum Rate, the excess interest shall be applied to the principal of the Term Loans or, if it exceeds such unpaid principal, refunded to the Borrower. In determining whether the interest contracted for, charged, or received by the Administrative Agent or a Lender exceeds the Maximum Rate, such Person may, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, (a) characterize any payment that is not principal as an expense, fee, or premium rather than interest, (b) exclude voluntary prepayments and the effects thereof, and (c) amortize, prorate, allocate, and spread in equal or unequal parts the total amount of interest throughout the contemplated term of the Obligations hereunder.
Interest Rate Limitation
.  
Maximum Rate
 
This Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto in different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall become effective when they shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement and any other Loan Document by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness
.  
 
All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Loan Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Term Loan or any other Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied; that such representations and warranties shall only be made or deemed made as of the dates explicitly required herein or therein. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender.
Survival of Representations and Warranties
.  
provided
 
If any provision of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) the legality, validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall not be affected or impaired thereby and (b) the parties shall endeavor in good faith negotiations to replace the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions. The invalidity of a provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
.  
 
If any Lender requests compensation under Section 3.04, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 3.01, or if any Lender is a Defaulting Lender, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in, and consents required by, Section 10.06), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement and the related Loan Documents to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment), that:
Replacement of Lenders
.  
provided
 
49
 
the Borrower shall have paid to the Administrative Agent the assignment fee specified in Section 10.06(b);
 
such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Term Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder and under the other Loan Documents (including any amounts under Section 3.05) from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts);
 
in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 3.04 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 3.01, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments thereafter; and
 
such assignment does not conflict with applicable Laws.
 
A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment or delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
 
.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Etc
 
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW
 
. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY SUBMITS, FOR ITSELF AND ITS PROPERTY, TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT OF THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT, AND ANY APPELLATE COURT FROM ANY THEREOF, IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT, OR FOR RECOGNITION OR ENFORCEMENT OF ANY JUDGMENT, AND EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN SUCH NEW YORK STATE COURT OR, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN SUCH FEDERAL COURT. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO AGREES THAT A FINAL JUDGMENT IN ANY SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN OTHER JURISDICTIONS BY SUIT ON THE JUDGMENT OR IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY LAW. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT OR IN ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL AFFECT ANY RIGHT THAT THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER MAY OTHERWISE HAVE TO BRING ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT AGAINST ANY OF THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO OR THEIR PROPERTIES IN THE COURTS OF ANY JURISDICTION.
SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION
 
. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY OBJECTION THAT IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT IN ANY COURT REFERRED TO IN PARAGRAPH (B) OF THIS SECTION. EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE DEFENSE OF AN INCONVENIENT FORUM TO THE MAINTENANCE OF SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY SUCH COURT.
WAIVER OF VENUE
 
50
 
. EACH PARTY HERETO IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS IN THE MANNER PROVIDED FOR NOTICES IN SECTION 10.02. NOTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT WILL AFFECT THE RIGHT OF ANY PARTY HERETO TO SERVE PROCESS IN ANY OTHER MANNER PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
SERVICE OF PROCESS
 
EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
Waiver of Jury Trial
.  
 
In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby, the Borrower acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the credit facilities provided for hereunder and any related arranging or other services in connection therewith (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) are an arms-length commercial transaction between the Borrower and its Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and the Arrangers, on the other hand, the Borrower is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Loan Documents (including any amendment, waiver or other modification thereof or thereof); (ii) in connection with the process leading to such transaction, the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Arranger each is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary, for the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other Person; (iii) neither the Administrative Agent, nor the Lenders, nor the Arrangers has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Borrower with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto, including with respect to any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document (irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lenders or any Arranger has advised or is currently advising the Borrower or any of its Affiliates on other matters) and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender nor any Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower or any of its Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents; (iv) the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Arranger and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a board range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower and its Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Arranger have not provided and will not provide any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby (including any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Loan Document) and the Borrower has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate. The Borrower hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that it may have against the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Arranger with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
.  
 
51
 
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act. The Borrower shall, following a request by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, provide all documentation and other information that the Administrative Agent or such Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with its ongoing obligations under applicable know your customer and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Act.
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
.  
Act
 
 
52
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:_______________ , _____
To: SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of July 7, 2010 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation (the ), each lender from time to time party thereto and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
 
The undersigned hereby requests (select one):
 
A Borrowing of Term Loans1        A conversion or continuation of Term Loans
The undersigned hereby certifies that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from such Term Loan Borrowing or from the application of the proceeds thereof unless such Default or Event of Default shall have been waived in accordance with the Agreement.
 
      Only applicable on the Closing Date.
1
 
 
A-1
 
 
 
                                        
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned (the ) hereby promises to pay to ______________ or registered assigns (the Lender), in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), the principal amount of each Loan from time to time made by the Lender to the Borrower under that certain Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of July 7, 2010 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among the Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent.
Borrower
Agreement
 
The Borrower promises to pay interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Loan from the date of such Loan until such principal amount is paid in full, at such interest rates and at such times as provided in the Agreement. All payments of principal and interest shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lender in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Administrative Agents Office. If any amount is not paid in full when due hereunder, such unpaid amount shall bear interest, to be paid upon demand, from the due date thereof until the date of actual payment (and before as well as after judgment) computed at the per annum rate set forth in the Agreement.
 
This Note is one of the Notes referred to in the Agreement, is entitled to the benefits thereof and may be prepaid in whole or in part subject to the terms and conditions provided therein. Upon the occurrence and continuation of one or more of the Events of Default specified in the Agreement, all amounts then remaining unpaid on this Note shall become, or may be declared to be, immediately due and payable all as provided in the Agreement. Loans made by the Lender shall be evidenced by one or more loan accounts or records maintained by the Lender in the ordinary course of business. The Lender may also attach schedules to this Note and endorse thereon the date, amount and maturity of its Loans and payments with respect thereto.
 
The Borrower, for itself, its successors and assigns, hereby waives diligence, presentment, protest and demand and notice of protest, demand, dishonor and non-payment of this Note.
 
THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
 
 
 
B-1
 
Financial Statement Date: _______________, _____
To: SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent
Ladies and Gentlemen:
Reference is made to that certain Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of July 7, 2010 (as amended, restated, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified in writing from time to time, the ; the terms defined therein being used herein as therein defined), among Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation (the ), the Lenders from time to time party thereto and SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Borrower
 
The undersigned Responsible Officer hereby certifies as of the date hereof that he/she is the _____________________ of the Borrower, and that, as such, he/she is authorized to execute and deliver this Certificate to the Administrative Agent on the behalf of the Borrower, and that:
 
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal year-end financial statements]
1. Attached hereto as are the year-end audited financial statements required by Section 6.01(a) of the Agreement for the fiscal year of the Borrower ended as of the above date, together with the report and opinion of an independent certified public accountant required by such section.
Schedule 1
 
[Use following paragraph 1 for fiscal quarter-end financial statements]
1. Attached hereto as are the unaudited financial statements required by Section 6.01(b) of the Agreement for the fiscal quarter of the Borrower ended as of the above date. Such financial statements fairly present the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP as at such date and for such period, subject only to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
Schedule 1
 
2. The undersigned has reviewed and is familiar with the terms of the Agreement and has made, or has caused to be made under his/her supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and condition (financial or otherwise) of the Borrower during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements.
 
3. A review of the activities of the Borrower during such fiscal period has been made under the supervision of the undersigned with a view to determining whether during such fiscal period the Borrower performed and observed all its Obligations under the Loan Documents, and
 
[select one:]
[to the best knowledge of the undersigned during such fiscal period, the Borrower performed and observed each covenant and condition of the Loan Documents applicable to it, and no Default has occurred and is continuing.]
 
or
[the following covenants or conditions have not been performed or observed and the following is a list of each such Default and its nature and status:]
 
 
C-1
 
4. The financial covenant analyses and information set forth on attached hereto are true and accurate on and as of the date of this Certificate.
Schedule 1
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Certificate as of ____________, ___.
 
 
 
C-2
 
For the Quarter/Year ended _________________ ()
Statement Date
Section 7.07  Ratio of Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization.
 
C-3
 
This Assignment and Assumption (this ) is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [the][each]2 Assignor identified in item 1 below ([the][each, an] ) and [the][each] Assignee identified in item 2 below ([the][each, an] ). [It is understood and agreed that the rights and obligations of [the Assignors][the Assignees]3 hereunder are several and not joint.]4 Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (the ), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment and Assumption as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment and Assumption
Assignor
Assignee
Credit Agreement
Annex 1
 
For an agreed consideration, [the][each] Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to [the Assignee][the respective Assignees], and [the][each] Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from [the Assignor][the respective Assignors], subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by the Administrative Agent as contemplated below (i) all of [the Assignors][the respective Assignors] rights and obligations in [its capacity as a Lender][their respective capacities as Lenders] under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto to the extent related to the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of such outstanding rights and obligations of [the Assignor][the respective Assignors] under the respective facilities identified below and (ii) to the extent permitted to be assigned under applicable law, all claims, suits, causes of action and any other right of [the Assignor (in its capacity as a Lender)][the respective Assignors (in their respective capacities as Lenders)] against any Person, whether known or unknown, arising under or in connection with the Credit Agreement, any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto or the loan transactions governed thereby or in any way based on or related to any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, contract claims, tort claims, malpractice claims, statutory claims and all other claims at law or in equity related to the rights and obligations sold and assigned by [the][any] Assignor to [the][any] Assignee pursuant to clause (i) above (the rights and obligations sold and assigned pursuant to clauses (i) and (ii) above being referred to herein collectively as [the][an] ). Each such sale and assignment is without recourse to [the][any] Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment and Assumption, without representation or warranty by [the][any] Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
D-1
 
Effective Date: _________, 20___[TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
 
The terms set forth in this Assignment and Assumption are hereby agreed to:
 
 
 
D-2
 
 
[Consented to and]Accepted:
1
 
 
D-3
 
Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of July 7, 2010 among Vulcan Materials Company, a New Jersey corporation, as Borrower, SunTrust Bank, as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto
 
1.           .
Representations and Warranties
 
1.1 . [The][Each] Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, (ii) [the][such] Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Loan Documents or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
 
1.2. . [The][Each] Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all the requirements to be an assignee under Section 10.06(b)(iii), (v) and (vi) of the Credit Agreement (subject to receipt of such consents as may be required under the Credit Agreement), (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement as a Lender thereunder and, to the extent of [the][the relevant] Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it is sophisticated with respect to decisions to acquire assets of the type presented by [the][such] Assigned Interest and either it, or the Person exercising discretion in making its decision to acquire [the][such] Assigned Interest, is experienced in acquiring assets of such type, (v) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement and has received or has been accorded the opportunity to receive copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.01 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it deems appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, (vi) it has independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and Assumption and to purchase [the][such] Assigned Interest, and (vii) if it is a Foreign Lender, attached hereto is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by [the][such] Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, [the][any] Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
 
2.           . From and after the Effective Date, the Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of [the][each] Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to [the][the relevant] Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to [the][relevant] Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
 
 
D-4
 
3.           . This Assignment and Assumption shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment and Assumption may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment and Assumption by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment and Assumption. This Assignment and Assumption shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the law of the State of New York.
General Provisions
 
 
D-5
 
 
Contact Information
 
 
 
D-6
 


