FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20100518120017.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
On May 18, 2010, the Company issued a press release in which it announced settlement of the Joliet Road lawsuit with the Illinois Department of Transportation.  The Company will pay the State of Illinois $40 million related to the closure of a 0.9 mile segment of Joliet Road in Cook County, Illinois.  A press release detailing the particulars of the settlement is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.  While the Company believes that the settlement is covered by insurance policies, and is taking appropriate actions to facilitate recovery from its insurers, the ultimate amount and timing of such recoveries cannot be predicted with certainty.  The press release is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.
Page 2 of 3
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 3 of 3

May 18, 2010
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Investor Contact: Mark Warren (205) 298-3220
Media Contact:  David Donaldson (205) 298-3220
Birmingham, Ala  Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC) today announced the settlement of a lawsuit filed against the Company by the State of Illinois and the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT).  IDOT will receive a total of $40 million in full and final settlement of the lawsuit.
Under terms of the settlement, IDOT will receive $20 million within 10 days.  The remaining $20 million will be paid as Vulcan receives funds from its insurers, with the full amount to be paid no later than nine months from the date of the settlement.  While Vulcan believes that the settlement is covered by insurance policies and is taking appropriate actions to facilitate recovery from its insurers, the ultimate amount and timing of such recoveries cannot be predicted with certainty.
In September 2001, Vulcan was named a defendant in the suit, alleging that the Company had caused damage to a 0.9-mile section of Joliet Road that bisects its McCook quarry in McCook, Illinois, a Chicago suburb.  That portion of Joliet Road was closed by IDOT in 1998.
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.


