FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20100217122538.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 1.01           
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On February 11, 2010, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Vulcan Materials Company (the "Company") approved for each of the named executive officers to be included in the Companys 2010 proxy statement (the NEOs), (i) the 2010 base salaries, effective March 1, 2010 and (ii) the short term target bonus percentages for the 2010 fiscal year.  Due to the continued downturn in the economy, short term cash bonuses were not earned, and therefore, the Compensation Committee did not approve the payment of any cash bonuses for the NEOs based on the Companys 2009 performance.  The compensation for the CEO was ratified by the Board of Directors.
 
Page 2 of 4
 
Salary and Cash Bonus
 
Each of the NEOs participates in the Companys Executive Incentive Plan (EIP).  Under this plan, participating executives are entitled to earn an annual cash incentive award to the extent established financial objectives are achieved.
 
The Compensation Committee has selected Economic Profit (EP), which is defined as operating income after current taxes less a charge for capital employed, as the financial performance objective for determining awards under the EIP and MIP.  A target EP is established by the Compensation Committee annually at its February meeting based on the average of last years actual EP and last years target EP for the Company as well as each of its divisions, subject to certain adjustments, including the effects of certain long-term investment projects.  The target EP represents the amount of EP that must be earned in order for a target bonus to be paid.  The target bonus is expressed as a percentage of base salary and established for each named executive officer based on market surveys of similar-sized industrial companies.  A named executive officer can earn from zero up to an amount equal to his Bonus Cap, depending on the actual EP results for the year.  If the EP performance relative to the EP target (for the Company or its business units as applicable for the particular executive officer) is not met, then the executives bonus would be reduced in accordance with a predetermined schedule.  In the case of the NEOs other than the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Executive Officer can adjust the actual bonus to be paid to the NEOs subject to the EIP individual Bonus Caps, based on:
 
 
 
 
 
The Compensation Committee likewise determines the actual bonus payable to the Chief Executive Officer based on his performance, subject to the restraints set forth above.
 
For each NEO, the following table reflects (i) the 2010 base salary effective March 1, 2010, (ii) the fact that no cash bonuses were approved or paid, and (iii) the target bonus opportunity for the 2010 fiscal year.
 
 
For Donald M. James, Chairman and CEO, the base salary effective March 1, 2010 remains unchanged from the base salary effective March 1, 2008.
 
Long-Term Incentive Award Payments
 
The Compensation Committee also authorized payments to the NEOs for the Performance Share Units previously granted pursuant to the Companys 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The payments were based on internal performance measures along with changes in the market value of our common stock and total shareholder return versus the S&P 500 index.
 
Page 3 of 4
 
The following table sets forth the amount earned for the previously granted Performance Share Units for the period ending December 31, 2009. Note that the value will be paid in shares of the Companys common stock.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Dated:     February 17, 2010
 
Page 4 of 4
 
 


