FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20110104174706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
On January 4, 2011, the Company issued a press release in which it announced corporate promotions of Danny Shepherd to Executive Vice President  Construction Materials and Daniel F. Sansone to Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  A press release detailing the particulars of the promotions is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)  
Exhibits:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
DATE:  January 4, 2011
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Media Contact:  David Donaldson (205) 298-3220
Investor Contact:  Mark Warren (205) 298-3220
Birmingham, Ala. - Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE: VMC) today announced senior management changes to be effective February 1, 2011.
Vulcans Board of Directors elected Danny R. Shepherd (59) to the position of Executive Vice President  Construction Materials and Daniel F. Sansone (58) to the position of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Shepherd has more than 25 years of experience with the company and is currently Senior Vice President  East.  Mr. Sansone joined Vulcan in 1988 and is currently Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Following the previously announced, February 1, 2011 retirement of Ron McAbee, Senior Vice President  West, Mr. Shepherd will have responsibility for all of Vulcans operating divisions and the Corporate Construction Materials functions that support division operations.
In addition to continuing as Vulcans Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Sansone will assume responsibility for the Marketing Support Services department and oversee the business development and strategic planning functions.
Commenting on the promotions, Don James, Vulcans Chairman and Chief Executive Officer stated, Danny Shepherd and Dan Sansone have long been key members of our senior management team.  As we continue to streamline our organizational structure, I am pleased to have these two executives with the experience and proven track record of success to assume additional responsibilities.
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.
 
 
 


