FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20120216095614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EBITDA is an acronym for Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization.  Cash earnings adjusts EBITDA for net interest expense and current taxes. 
 
February 16, 2012
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Investor Contact: Mark Warren (205) 298-3220
Media Contact: David Donaldson (205) 298-3220
 
VULCAN ANNOUNCES SIGNIFICANT EARNINGS IMPROVEMENT IN THE FOURTH QUARTER OF 2011 AND 2012 VALUE ENHANCEMENT INITIATIVES
 
Announces $100 Million of Profit Enhancements and Planned Asset Sales for Net Proceeds of $500 Million: Initiatives to Enable Accelerated Earnings, Dividend Growth, and Deleveraging
 
 
 Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE:VMC), the nations largest producer of construction aggregates, today announced significantly improved results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011, and provided details on initiatives to generate higher levels of earnings and cash flow that will strengthen its credit profile and provide Vulcans Board of Directors with flexibility to restore a competitive dividend.
Birmingham, Alabama  February 16, 2012
 
Announcement Highlights
 
 
Don James, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, EBITDA increased strongly in the fourth quarter of 2011. In particular, our Aggregates segment performed very well, with increased volumes and pricing, as well as lower unit cost of sales, even with substantial increases in energy costs. We achieved higher productivity and improved our industry-leading safety performance. Overall, we benefited from our ongoing cost reduction initiatives, as reflected in the 10 percent decrease in total Selling, Administrative and General (SAG) expense in the fourth quarter. Our focus on improving product line earnings through price and cost leadership, and the execution of the Profit Enhancement Plan we are announcing today, position us for stronger performance in 2012.
 
Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2011 Results Summary
 
 
 
Commentary on 4Q 2011 Segment Results
 
Fourth quarter Aggregates segment net sales increased $16 million (+4 percent) and gross profit increased $22 million (+37 percent) from the prior year. Higher pricing and shipments coupled with lower unit cost of sales led to a sharp increase in Aggregates gross profit margin. Last years fourth quarter included $7 million of certain charges. Aggregates shipments increased 3 percent from the prior year. Aggregates shipments in California and the Mid-Atlantic region showed relative strength and were up 40 percent and 19 percent, respectively, from the prior year. These increases were due mainly to large infrastructure project work, primarily highways, and to favorable weather conditions. The average sales price for aggregates increased 1 percent from the prior year due to improvements in a number of markets, particularly Florida, Tennessee, Texas and Virginia. All key labor productivity and energy efficiency metrics improved from the prior year and helped offset a 25 percent increase in the unit cost for diesel fuel.
 
Asphalt Mix segment gross profit was $5 million versus $8 million in the prior year, due principally to higher liquid asphalt costs. The average sales price for asphalt mix increased approximately 9 percent, offsetting most of the earnings effect of a 16 percent increase in liquid asphalt cost. Asphalt mix volume decreased 1 percent from the prior year.
 
For the fourth quarter of 2011, Concrete segment gross profit improved $2 million to a loss of $11 million versus a loss of $13 million in the prior year. Ready-mixed concrete volumes were flat compared to the prior year. The average sales price increased 5 percent from the prior year, contributing to improved unit materials margin. Cement segment gross profit was $1 million, an improvement of $2 million from the prior year, due to increased volumes and lower operating costs.
 
Completion of Previously Announced Restructuring
 
Vulcan has substantially completed the restructuring initiatives that were approved and announced in the fourth quarter of 2011, prior to the unsolicited exchange offer from Martin Marietta. This restructuring plan included the consolidation of eight divisions into four regions, the streamlining of support functions, and the reduction of related positions and overhead costs. This restructuring and other actions completed earlier in 2011 have resulted in annualized overhead cost savings of over $55 million.
 
Profit Enhancement Plan
 
Vulcan announced today that it is taking additional actions to improve its profitability at current volumes, as measured by EBITDA, by $100 million annually. Of this, $25 million is expected to be achieved in 2012, $75 million in 2013, and the full $100 million in 2014. These enhancements will be in addition to the $55 million in run-rate overhead reductions already achieved.
 
 
The timing of the Profit Enhancement Plan was driven by several important catalysts. Since initiating the project in 2007, Vulcan has invested $62 million in expense and capital to implement its new ERP and Shared Services platforms. This investment will be substantially completed in 2012, and Vulcan is now beginning to reap the benefits. These platforms are helping to streamline processes enterprise-wide and standardize administrative and support functions while providing enhanced flexibility to monitor and control costs. These new platforms enabled Vulcan to undertake the restructuring initiatives in 2011 and the development of the Profit Enhancement Plan. The Companys consolidated management structure will enable Vulcan to implement best practices across the organization efficiently. This initiative has been led by Danny Shepherd, who was promoted to Executive Vice President, Construction Materials in January 2011. In addition, as previously announced in October 2011, John McPherson joined the Company as Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development. Mr. McPherson has over 15 years of experience with realigning and restructuring corporate organizations and cost structures, including the sale of non-core assets. Together, Mr. McPherson and Mr. Shepherd will drive the execution of the Profit Enhancement Plan.
 
The $100 million includes $75 million in cost savings and other profit enhancements -- achieved in part by leveraging Vulcans already robust procurement practices to capture significant incremental savings in production, technology and other capital spending, transportation and logistics. The Profit Enhancement Plan also includes $25 million from improved efficiency and effectiveness of support functions, driven by the further consolidation, standardization and simplification of workflows; fully leveraging Vulcans Shared Services structure; and retiring legacy IT systems.
 
Taken together these actions will improve Vulcans profitability at current volumes and further enhance the Companys already strong operating leverage. As a result of its cost actions and continued price leadership, Vulcan estimates that the Company will be able to generate EBITDA equal to historical peak levels at volumes 25 percent lower than the historical peak.
 
Planned Asset Sales
 
Vulcan also announced that it expects to generate net proceeds of approximately $500 million from the sale of assets over the next 12 to 18 months. These planned asset sales will be made from a broad portfolio of assets that are not central to the Companys strategy as the leading aggregates producer in the fastest-growing regions and urban markets of the United States. This asset portfolio includes select concrete and cement operations, select aggregates assets, and surplus real estate. Vulcan may divest assets either in whole or in part, and the Company remains committed to maximizing the value of any assets sold.
 
This asset sales program, which is also being led by John McPherson and Danny Shepherd, continues Vulcans active management of its business portfolio and capital allocation. The most immediate benefit to shareholders will be an improved credit profile resulting from reduced debt levels. Importantly, these actions will also enhance the Companys longer-term earnings growth profile, margins, and return on capital employed. The Company has recently completed several strategic actions of this type including the sale of the Companys quarries in northern Indiana, the divestiture of ready-mixed concrete assets in Arizona, certain asset swaps closed in 2011 that allowed the Company to improve its asset portfolio, and the sale of surplus real estate in California.
 
2012 Outlook
 
Vulcan expects that full year 2012 segment earnings in each product line will improve versus the prior year due to higher pricing, modest growth in volumes and lower costs. Total aggregates shipments are expected to increase approximately 1 to 2 percent, while same-store aggregates volume is expected to increase by 2 to 3 percent. Aggregates freight-adjusted pricing is expected to increase by 2 to 4 percent. In addition, Aggregates costs should be lower than in 2011 due to improved productivity, restructuring of overhead support functions and the Profit Enhancement Plan. As a result, Aggregates segment earnings are expected to improve substantially from 2011. Asphalt Mix segment earnings are expected to increase due to higher pricing and modest growth in volumes. Ready-mixed concrete pricing should continue to improve and shipments should approximate the prior year, contributing to an improvement in gross profit. Cement earnings should approach break-even levels in 2012. Energy costs, specifically unit costs for diesel fuel and liquid asphalt, are expected to approximate 2011 levels.
 
 
Full year 2012 SAG costs are expected to be approximately $270 million. Vulcan anticipates 2012 EBITDA of approximately $500 million, including $25 million due to the Profit Enhancement Plan, and excluding impacts from Planned Asset Sales and costs associated with the unsolicited exchange offer. Capital spending in 2012 should be approximately $100 million.
 
Vulcan has a long record of paying competitive dividends, and the actions announced today will provide Vulcans Board of Directors flexibility in increasing the Companys dividend payments. Vulcans Board of Directors intends to restore a competitive dividend as rapidly as possible and along with management, is taking the actions necessary to do so.
 
Our outlook for earnings growth in 2012 is supported by improved pricing and aggressive cost control, said Mr. James. For now, we are maintaining a conservative view of near-term demand growth. We expect relatively stable public spending on highway projects, specifically road-related construction, some improvement in private nonresidential building construction and continued strong growth in multi-family housing. We remain intensely focused on delivering value and accelerating our profit growth by further improving our operating leverage, reducing overhead costs, strengthening our credit profile, and restoring a meaningful dividend.
 
Conference Call
 
Vulcan will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. CDT on February 16, 2012. Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling 866-783-2138 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start. International participants can dial 857-350-1597. The access code is 54805024. A live webcast and accompanying slides will be available via the Internet through Vulcan's home page at www.vulcanmaterials.com. The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through February 23, 2012.
 
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 Index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
 
This document does not constitute an offer to buy or solicitation of an offer to sell any securities or a solicitation of any vote, consent or approval.  In response to the unsolicited exchange offer commenced by Martin Marietta Materials, Inc., a North Carolina corporation (Martin Marietta), Vulcan Materials Company (Vulcan) has filed a Solicitation/Recommendation statement on Schedule 14D-9 with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF VULCAN ARE URGED TO READ THE SOLICITATION / RECOMMENDATION STATEMENT AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.  Investors and security holders may obtain free copies of these documents and other documents filed with the SEC by Vulcan through the website maintained by the SEC at .  Copies of the Solicitation/Recommendation Statement, any amendments and supplements to the Solicitation/Recommendation Statement and other Vulcan materials related to Martin Mariettas unsolicited offer will also be available for free under the Investor Relations tab of Vulcans corporate website, www.vulcanmaterials.com.
http://www.sec.gov
 
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT POTENTIAL PARTICIPANTS
 
In addition, Vulcan intends to file a proxy statement with the SEC with respect to the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.  Any definitive proxy statement will be mailed to stockholders of Vulcan.  Vulcan, its directors and certain of its executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from Vulcan shareholders in connection with the matters to be considered at the annual meeting.
 
INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS OF VULCAN ARE URGED TO READ ANY SUCH PROXY STATEMENT, ACCOMPANYING PROXY CARD AND OTHER DOCUMENTS FILED WITH THE SEC CAREFULLY IN THEIR ENTIRETY WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION.  Investors and security holders will be able to obtain free copies of these documents (when available) and other documents filed with the SEC by Vulcan through the website maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov.
 
Detailed information regarding the identity of potential participants, and their direct or indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be set forth in the proxy statement and other materials to be filed with the SEC in connection with Vulcans 2012 Annual Meeting.  Information regarding the direct and indirect beneficial ownership of Vulcans directors and executive officers in Vulcans securities is included in their SEC filings on Forms 3, 4 and 5, and additional information can also be found in Vulcans Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed with the SEC on February 28, 2011, and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the first three quarters of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011, filed on May 6, 2011, August 4, 2011 and November 4, 2011, respectively.  Relevant information concerning such participants and their potential interests is also contained in the Solicitation/Recommendation on Schedule 14D-9.  Shareholders will be able to obtain any proxy statement, any amendments or supplements to the proxy statement and other documents filed by Vulcan with the SEC for no charge at the SECs website at . Copies will also be available at no charge under the Investor Relations tab of our corporate website at .
www.sec.gov
www.vulcanmaterials.com
 
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT DISCLAIMER
 
Certain matters discussed in this release, including expectations regarding future performance, contain forward-looking statements.  Statements that are not historical fact, including statements about Vulcans beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements.  Generally, these statements relate to future financial performance, results of operations, business plans or strategies, projected or anticipated revenues, expenses, earnings (including EBITDA and other measures), dividend policy, shipment volumes, pricing, levels of capital expenditures, intended cost reductions and cost savings, anticipated profit improvements and/or planned divestitures and asset sales. These forward-looking statements are sometimes identified by the use of terms and phrases such as believe, should, would, expect, project, estimate, anticipate, intend, plan, will, can, may or similar expressions elsewhere in this document.  These statements are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including but not limited to general business conditions, competitive factors, pricing, energy costs, and other risks and uncertainties discussed in the reports Vulcan periodically files with the SEC.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results, developments, and business decisions may vary significantly from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. The following risks related to Vulcan's business, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: risks that Vulcans intentions, plans and results with respect to cost reductions, profit enhancements and asset sales, as well as streamlining and other strategic actions adopted by Vulcan, will not be able to be realized to the desired degree or within the desired time period and that the results thereof will differ from those anticipated or desired; uncertainties as to the timing and valuations that may be realized or attainable with respect to intended asset sales; future events relating to Martin Marietta's unsolicited offer to acquire Vulcan; those associated with general economic and business conditions; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; the lack of a multi-year federal highway funding bill with an automatic funding mechanism; the reluctance of state departments of transportation to undertake federal highway projects without a reliable method of federal funding; the impact of a prolonged economic recession on Vulcan's industry, business and financial condition and access to capital markets; changes in the level of spending for private residential and nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; the impact of future regulatory or legislative actions; the outcome of pending legal proceedings; pricing of Vulcan's products; incurred and potential costs associated with Martin Mariettas unsolicited takeover attempt and proxy contest; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; healthcare costs; the amount of long-term debt and interest expense incurred by Vulcan; changes in interest rates; the impact of Vulcan's below investment grade debt rating on Vulcan's cost of capital; volatility in pension plan asset values which may require cash contributions to the pension plans; the impact of environmental clean-up costs and other liabilities relating to previously divested businesses; Vulcan's ability to secure and permit aggregates reserves in strategically located areas; Vulcan's ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; the potential of goodwill impairment; the potential impact of future legislation or regulations relating to climate change or greenhouse gas emissions or the definition of minerals; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the reports filed by Vulcan with the SEC. All forward-looking statements in this communication are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement.  Vulcan disclaims and does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this document except as required by law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.   Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) does not define "free cash flow", "Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)", and "cash earnings."  Thus, they should not be considered as an alternative to net cash provided by operating activities or any other liquidity or earnings measure defined by GAAP.  We present these metrics for the convenience of investment professionals who use such metrics in their analysis, and for shareholders who need to understand the metrics we use to assess performance and to monitor our cash and liquidity positions.  The investment community often uses these metrics as indicators of a company's ability to incur and service debt.  We use free cash flow, cash gross profit, EBITDA, cash earnings and other such measures to assess the operating performance of our various business units and the consolidated company.  We do not use these metrics as a measure to allocate resources.  Reconciliations of these metrics to their nearest GAAP measures are presented below: 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures (Continued)
 
EBITDA and Cash Earnings 
 


