FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20120404170956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01   Other Events.
 
            On April 4, 2012, Vulcan Materials Company ("Vulcan") sent the letter attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to Martin Marietta Materials, Inc. ("Martin Marietta") concerning certain agreements entered into between Martin Marietta and its proposed nominees for Vulcan's Board of Directors with respect to Vulcan's 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
 
 
Item 9.01
.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits:
 
Exhibit No.
                
Description 
 
99.1                             Letter to Martin Marietta Materials, Inc., dated April 4, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
            Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
                                                                               
Vulcan Materials Company
 
 
Date:  April 4, 2012                                    By:
          /s/ Robert A. Wason               
                                                                                    Name:  Robert A. Wason IV
                                                                                    Title:    Senior Vice President
                                                                                                & General Counsel 
                                     
 
 
 
 
Exhibit No.
               
Description 
 
99.1                             Letter to Martin Marietta Materials, Inc., dated April 4, 2012

 
Exhibit 99.1
BY FACSIMILE AND E-MAIL
 
Martin Marietta Materials, Inc.
2710 Wycliff Road
Raleigh, North Carolina 27607-3033
Telephone: 919-783-4603
Facsimile: 919-783-4535
 
Attention:         Roselyn R. Bar, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
 
Re:      
Notice of Nomination
Dear Ms. Bar:
I am writing on behalf of Vulcan Materials Company (Vulcan) in response to your April 3, 2012 letter concerning Martin Marietta Materials, Inc.s (Martin Marietta) nomination of candidates for Vulcans Board of Directors with respect to Vulcans 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and, in particular, the confidentiality agreements entered into by Martin Marietta with its proposed nominees that were not disclosed in Martin Mariettas nomination documents (the Nominee Agreements). 
We take note of your assertions that the Nominee Agreements are straightforward and were not required to be disclosed by Vulcans Bylaws and associated questionnaire and Representation and Agreement or the SEC rules, and that [t]he only commitment given to [Martin Marietta] by each of the [n]ominees is that he or she will stand for election to the Vulcan Board and, if elected, will serve on the Vulcan Board.  However, to date you have chosen not to make these agreements public, which for example could easily be done via an exhibit to your recent letter filing, or to otherwise make them available to Vulcan in a manner that would permit them to be used in connection with Vulcan's review of the nomination in accordance with its governing documents. 
Although you suggest that Martin Marietta has already given these agreements to Vulcan, they were produced under a court order and the Vulcan Board does not have access to them.
  
We hereby reiterate our request for you to produce the Nominee Agreements as soon as possible so that the Vulcan Board can proceed with its review. 
This letter is not and should not in any way be deemed to be an admission by Vulcan that Martin Mariettas nomination materials would be valid but for the matters raised herein, or that Martin Marietta has otherwise complied with the applicable provisions of the Bylaws or of applicable law.  Vulcan expressly preserves its right to challenge other defects in the nomination documents, and does not waive any such right or any related rights. 
 
 
 
Roselyn R. Bar
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
Martin Marietta Materials, Inc.
April 4, 2012
Page 2
 
Sincerely,
/s/ Robert A. Wason IV
Robert A. Wason IV
 
cc:          Edward D. Herlihy, Esq., Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen
& Katz
               Igor Kirman, Esq., Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz
                
              
Philip R. Lochner, Jr.
               Edward W. Moneypenny
               Karen R. Osar
               V. James Sardo
               J. Keith Matheney
               A. Jay Meyerson
                        c/o McElroy, Deutsch, Mulvaney & Carpenter, LLP
                       
1300 Mount Kemble Avenue
                        P.O. Box 2075
                        Morristown, NJ 07962-2075
Attn: Joseph LaSala


