FILE:VMC/VMC-8K-20121108151832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Vulcan Announces Earnings For The Third Quarter Of 2012
Continued Improvement in Aggregates Earnings Driven by Higher Pricing and Effective Cost Control
Aggregates Gross Profit Margin Up 340 Basis Points from Third Quarter 2011
BIRMINGHAM, Ala., Nov. 8, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- Vulcan Materials Company (NYSE: VMC), the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, today announced earnings for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012.
(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20090710/CL44887LOGO )
Third Quarter 2012 Results Summary
Aggregates segment gross profit improved $11 million, or 10 percent, reflecting increased pricing and lower unit cost of sales due to improved productivity and cost reduction initiatives.
Aggregates pricing increased 4 percent from the prior year, reflecting improvement in most markets.
Unit cost of sales decreased 1 percent from the prior year.
On a same-store basis, aggregates shipments decreased 6 percent from the prior year.
Aggregates cash gross profit was $4.75 per ton, a third quarter record.
Aggregates gross profit margin was 25.4 percent, an increase of 340 basis points from the prior year.
Gross profit from non-aggregates segments was in line with the prior year's third quarter as overall segment revenues approximated the prior year. 
Total gross profit increased 10 percent and gross profit margin expanded 230 basis points as the earnings effect of higher pricing and effective cost control more than offset the earnings effects of declines in aggregates and asphalt shipments.
Adjusted EBIT and EBITDA increased $19 million and $12 million, respectively, over the prior year.
Earnings from continuing operations were $0.12 per diluted share versus $0.17 per diluted share in the prior year.  The prior year's earnings included $0.30 per diluted share from the gain on sale of assets and recovery from a legal settlement.  On a comparable basis, as indicated on the table below, third quarter earnings from continuing operations were $0.14 per diluted share compared to a loss of $0.13 per diluted share in the prior year.
Don James, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, stated, "This quarter marks the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year higher unit profitability in aggregates, lower SAG expense and growth in Adjusted EBITDA. For the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2012, cash gross profit per ton in aggregates was 8 percent higher than the prior twelve months, SAG expense was down 12 percent and Adjusted EBITDA increased 30 percent. These results demonstrate the benefits of our ongoing focus on reducing controllable costs and maximizing operating efficiency across the organization."
Mr. James continued, "In addition, leading indicators in private sector construction markets, including residential and nonresidential buildings, continue to improve. This should benefit our aggregates, concrete and cement businesses going forward. Year-to-date, concrete and cement volumes are up 8 percent and 23 percent, respectively, reflecting the upturn in private construction, particularly in Florida and Texas."
Aggregates segment gross profit increased $11 million from the prior year's third quarter and gross profit margin expanded 340 basis points despite a 5 percent decline in segment revenues. Third quarter aggregates cash gross profit per ton was $4.75, 10 percent higher than the prior year and a record for third quarter unit profitability. Higher Aggregates segment earnings and unit profitability were driven by a 4 percent increase in the average sales price and lower unit costs. The improvement in operating cost was due to increased productivity in a number of key operating metrics and was achieved despite lower production volume. Most of the Company's markets realized increased pricing, including key markets in Florida, Texas and states in the Southeast, the mid-Atlantic and the Midwest. Private construction activity, particularly residential, continued to improve during the third quarter, offsetting softness in highway construction resulting from the prolonged delay in renewing the federal highway bill. The new bill, "MAP-21," was signed into law in July of this year, nearly three years after expiration of the previous multi-year bill. On a same-store basis, aggregates shipments decreased 6 percent versus the prior year. Total aggregates shipments in Arizona, Florida and Texas increased 12 percent, due primarily to growing demand from private construction. Most other markets experienced declines in aggregates volumes compared to the third quarter of 2011, reflecting weakness in public construction activity that more than offset growth in private construction activity.
Commentary on 3Q 2012 Segment Results
Collectively, third quarter earnings from the Company's non-aggregates segments were in-line with the prior year. Earnings improvements in the Cement and Concrete segments offset a slight decrease in Asphalt Mix gross profit. The unit cost for liquid asphalt increased 3 percent, reducing Asphalt segment earnings by $1 million. Continued recovery in private construction activity led to solid increases in ready-mixed concrete and cement volumes as well as year-over-year growth in pricing for both products.
SAG expenses in the third quarter decreased $2 million from the prior year. This marks the fourth consecutive quarterly decline in year-over-year SAG expenses. Excluding the effects of certain accounting charges tied primarily to employee benefit plans and resulting from the increase in the Company's stock price, SAG expenses were reduced $10 million from the prior year's third quarter.
The following table summarizes the year-over-year changes for key metrics.
The following table summarizes Adjusted EBITDA and Continuing Operations EPS.
EBITDA and Earnings from Continuing Operations for the third quarter of 2011 included a $40 million gain on the sale of assets in Indiana and $21 million related to the recovery from a legal settlement. Adjusted EBITDA improved $12 million and adjusted earnings from continuing operations improved $0.27 per diluted share.
Cash and cash equivalents totaled $243 million at September 30, 2012. Debt maturities in the fourth quarter of 2012 total $135 million which the Company expects to fund from available cash. Capital spending is expected to be approximately $100 million in 2012.
2012 Outlook
Mr. James stated, "Employees throughout the Company are keenly focused on managing controllable costs. Thanks to their continuing efforts, Adjusted EBITDA has increased 25 percent year-to-date and the earnings leverage in our aggregates business continues to increase, as evidenced by the increase in cash gross profit per ton. Through the nine months ended September 30, 2012, Adjusted EBITDA, which excludes $18 million in real estate gains, was $321 million, up $64 million in the face of a 1 percent decline in aggregates volumes. Cost reduction initiatives across a wide array of spending categories continue to improve Vulcan's run-rate profitability. Through the first nine months of 2012, controllable costs have been reduced approximately $70 million. The effect of these initiatives supports our expectations for full year SAG costs to be approximately $260 million, compared to $290 million in 2011."
Mr. James continued, "We believe economic and construction-related fundamentals that drive demand for our products will continue to improve from the historically low levels created by the economic downturn. Leading indicators of private construction activity, specifically residential housing starts and contract awards for nonresidential buildings, continue to improve in our markets. Consequently, aggregates demand into private construction, particularly residential, is beginning to grow. We are seeing evidence of this growth in several key states, including Florida, Texas and Arizona. However, the positive effect of these indicators takes time to materialize and impact our shipments given the low point from which the recovery began. For public construction, the passage of a new federal highway bill in July will provide stability and predictability to future highway funding, although it had no material impact on third quarter shipments, which reflected softness in highway construction and the ending of stimulus-related construction activity. The large increase in TIFIA (Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act) funding contained in the new highway bill should positively impact demand in the future. The uncertain timing of larger projects, including TIFIA funded projects, continues to make forecasting quarterly volume growth difficult. We now expect full year same-store shipments in 2012 to approximate 2011 and total aggregates shipments to decrease approximately 1 percent. In keeping with our successful efforts to offset the earnings effect of lower volumes in recent quarters, we will continue our efforts to reduce controllable costs and achieve improved pricing. The geographic breadth of pricing gains achieved in the third quarter reinforces our expectations for full year freight-adjusted price growth of 1 to 3 percent in 2012."
Full year earnings improvements in the Company's Cement and Concrete segments are expected to offset lower Asphalt Mix segment earnings. As a result, collectively, full year earnings from these segments are expected to approximate the prior year.
Vulcan now expects 2012 Adjusted EBITDA of $435 to $455 million, an improvement of 23 to 29 percent from the prior year. This guidance includes $29 million in gains from the sale of assets, of which $18 million has been realized through the first nine months of 2012. The change in Adjusted EBITDA guidance reflects principally the earnings impact of lower shipments in aggregates and asphalt. The Company continues to work on additional asset sales in the fourth quarter. However, the ultimate timing of such transactions is difficult to predict and thus gains related to these transactions are excluded from current guidance. The Company remains committed to completing transactions designed to strengthen Vulcan's balance sheet, unlock capital for more productive uses and create value for shareholders.
Conference Call
Vulcan will host a conference call at 10:00 a.m. CST on November 8, 2012. Investors and other interested parties in the U.S. may access the teleconference live by calling 888.895.5479 approximately 10 minutes before the scheduled start. International participants can dial 847.619.6250. The access code is 33645025. A live webcast and accompanying slides will be available via the Internet through Vulcan's home page at . The conference call will be recorded and available for replay approximately two hours after the call through November 15, 2012.
www.vulcanmaterials.com
Vulcan Materials Company, a member of the S&P 500 Index, is the nation's largest producer of construction aggregates, a major producer of asphalt mix and concrete and a leading producer of cement in Florida.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT DISCLAIMER
This document contains forward-looking statements. Statements that are not historical fact, including statements about Vulcan's beliefs and expectations, are forward-looking statements. Generally, these statements relate to future financial performance, results of operations, business plans or strategies, projected or anticipated revenues, expenses, earnings (including EBITDA and other measures), dividend policy, shipment volumes, pricing, levels of capital expenditures, intended cost reductions and cost savings, anticipated profit improvements and/or planned divestitures and asset sales. These forward-looking statements are sometimes identified by the use of terms and phrases such as "believe," "should," "would," "expect," "project," "estimate," "anticipate," "intend," "plan," "will," "can," "may" or similar expressions elsewhere in this document. These statements are subject to numerous risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, including but not limited to general business conditions, competitive factors, pricing, energy costs, and other risks and uncertainties discussed in the reports Vulcan periodically files with the SEC.
Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and actual results, developments, and business decisions may vary significantly from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. The following risks related to Vulcan's business, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements: risks that Vulcan's intentions, plans and results with respect to cost reductions, profit enhancements and asset sales, as well as streamlining and other strategic actions adopted by Vulcan, will not be able to be realized to the desired degree or within the desired time period and that the results thereof will differ from those anticipated or desired; uncertainties as to the timing and valuations that may be realized or attainable with respect to intended asset sales; those associated with general economic and business conditions; the timing and amount of federal, state and local funding for infrastructure; the impact of a prolonged economic recession on Vulcan's industry, business and financial condition and access to capital markets; changes in the level of spending for private residential and nonresidential construction; the highly competitive nature of the construction materials industry; the impact of future regulatory or legislative actions; the outcome of pending legal proceedings; pricing of Vulcan's products; weather and other natural phenomena; energy costs; costs of hydrocarbon-based raw materials; healthcare costs; the amount of long-term debt and interest expense incurred by Vulcan; changes in interest rates; the impact of Vulcan's below investment grade debt rating on Vulcan's cost of capital; volatility in pension plan asset values which may require cash contributions to the pension plans; the impact of environmental clean-up costs and other liabilities relating to previously divested businesses; Vulcan's ability to secure and permit aggregates reserves in strategically located areas; Vulcan's ability to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions; the potential of goodwill impairment; the potential impact of future legislation or regulations relating to climate change or greenhouse gas emissions or the definition of minerals; and other assumptions, risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in the reports filed by Vulcan with the SEC. All forward-looking statements in this communication are qualified in their entirety by this cautionary statement. Vulcan disclaims and does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement in this document except as required by law.
CONTACT: Investor Contact - Mark Warren, +1-205-298-3220; Media Contact - David Donaldson, +1-205-298-3220


