ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview The Company is the largest provider of group and individual income protection insurance products and a leading provider of life, accident, and long term care products in the United States and the United Kingdom. Through its U.S. brokerage operation, which represents approximately 82 percent of total segment operating revenue, the Company markets a portfolio of group, individual, and voluntary benefit products and services to employers and their employees, as well as offering a limited number of products to individual customers. The Company believes that its product line, its commitment to high quality service, and its claims management approach position the organization well to compete in this highly competitive business. In addition to competition, portions of the Companys business are sensitive to economic and financial market factors, including consumer confidence, employment levels, and the level of interest rates. In 2003, there were a number of areas of the business that met expectations, including the Companys United Kingdom and Colonial operations, and its U.S. brokerage group life, voluntary, and individual income protection recently issued business lines. Other areas, primarily the group income protection and individual income protection closed block business lines, faced significant challenges, which the Company addressed over the course of the year, as described below. Themes that help in understanding the Companys 2003 results include: The Companys experience has been that its U.S. group disability claim trends are correlated with consumer confidence levels and employment growth. In periods with falling or negative growth in employment, or low consumer confidence, the Company has experienced a corresponding increase in disability claim incidence and greater difficulty in returning disabled insureds to work. According to the U.S. Department of Labor, the United States economy lost 2.4 million jobs during the time period between December 2000 and December 2003 and experienced a change in the unemployment rate from 4.2 percent in January 2001 to 5.7 percent in December 2003. During the same period, the consumer confidence index, as measured by the Conference Board, fell from 115.7 to 91.7, a 20.7 percent decrease. From 2001 through 2003, the Company experienced an increase in submitted group income protection claims of approximately 6.6 percent. During 2003, claim resolution rates, which partially reflect the Companys ability to return disabled insureds to work, were lower than in any year since 1999. The combined impact of higher claim incidence and lower than usual claim resolutions contributed to the Companys reserve strengthening during 2003 for its group income protection reserves. During the second half of 2003, claim resolution rates increased 7.5 percent from the lower levels experienced during the fourth quarter of 2002 through the second quarter of 2003. Claim incidence rates continue at historically high levels and are an important part of the Companys 2004 plans, addressed below. An unfavorable investment environment has a detrimental effect on both the Companys revenue and expenses. From the end of 2000 through the end of 2003 the yield on the benchmark 10 year U.S. Treasury note declined from 5.11 percent to 4.25 percent. This investment environment affected the Company in three ways. First, a large portion of the Companys investment portfolio is invested in fixed income securities to pay future policyholder benefits. Falling investment yields increase the amount of reserves which must be established to pay future policyholder liabilities. Unless the Company can increase its prices to reflect these lower investment yields, the lower yields place pressure on profit margins. Second, cash flows from existing investments due to interest payments, sales and maturities of securities, or prepayments must be reinvested at lower current rates, which lower the net investment income earned on the investment portfolio. Third, falling investment yields have an impact on employee benefits costs in general, primarily the cost of providing pension benefits to employees. Along with rising medical costs, the investment environment since 2001 has put pressure on all employee benefits costs, including the price of products sold by the Company. During 2003, the Company addressed the investment environment by: Strengthening its existing claim reserves for its group income protection business $300.0 million before tax to reflect the actual change in investment portfolio investment yield rates during 2003 and the expectation of lower future investment portfolio yield rates; 24 Table of Contents Lowering the discount rate for reserves established for new group and individual income protection claims to levels consistent with todays lower levels of interest rates; and, Reducing its holdings in below investment grade securities from 10.4 percent of investments (on a carrying value basis) at year end 2002 to 7.8 percent at the end of 2003. In addition, the improving trend in the investment credit market as well as the reduction in below investment grade securities reduced the Companys level of unrealized losses in its fixed maturity bond portfolio from $1.1 billion at the end of 2002 to $491.0 million at the end of 2003. The Company also experienced improvement in the amount of unrealized losses on below investment grade securities in an unrealized loss position for over one year. The Company has faced increased media, regulatory, and litigation actions. Beginning in October 2002, the Company became the subject of a number of media stories that criticized its processing of disability claims. This negative media attention created a significant public relations challenge for the Company. As a result of this negative attention, the Company has experienced an increase in attention from its regulators, particularly state insurance departments. In addition, more than 20 purported class action and stockholder derivative lawsuits have been brought against the Company and or its subsidiaries directors and officers. Refer to Item 8 Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for information on the Companys litigation. The Company has responded to this negative publicity by increasing its communication level with all of its constituents, to be sure all these individuals are equipped with the facts. The Company is also being responsive to all inquiries concerning its processes and practices, and while it responds to these various parties the Company has continued to review its existing processes and practices and has made refinements and improvement in procedures an approach it has followed for many years. Although this adverse publicity has made it more difficult to compete in the marketplace, the Company has not experienced any material change in sales, persistency, or sales force personnel as a result of the negative attention. The Company believes that its strong relationships with its producers and customers, supported by consistent service and claim handling, have been significant factors in maintaining its strong reputation in the market. Claim and investment results combined to weaken the Companys balance sheet in late 2002 and early 2003, leading the Company to raise capital in various ways in mid to late 2003. The cumulative effect of statutory investment portfolio losses and claim results reduced the Companys risk based capital ratio for its U.S. insurance subsidiaries. The weighted average risk based capital ratio based on the NAIC Company Action Level formula moved from 250 percent as of December 31, 2001 to 210 percent as of December 31, 2002. Actions to restore balance sheet strength during 2003 included: Selling $1.150 billion in equity and equity related securities, with a portion of the proceeds used to reduce intercompany borrowing by $535.0 million and increase the capital level of the Companys U.S. insurance subsidiaries through capital contributions of $510.0 million in cash; and, Entering into agreements to sell several non core businesses and product lines on terms that result in increased statutory capital. Specifically, the Company entered into agreements to divest its Canadian branch operation, its majority interest in its subsidiary in Argentina, and its income protection subsidiary in Japan. In the United States, it reinsured certain of its insurance policies distributed through associations. The cumulative result of these efforts was to restore the Companys risk based capital ratio to 247 percent as of December 31, 2003. With the anticipated closing of the sale of the Canadian operation in the first half of 2004, the Company expects that its risk based capital ratio will be approximately 277 percent, the highest level since the 1999 merger of Unum and Provident. Key elements to success in the Companys U.S. brokerage group income protection business are appropriate underwriting and pricing. Beginning in the second half of 2003, the Company instituted more disciplined underwriting and pricing for both new and renewal business in this line. While this approach is believed to be best for the long term, it may result in lower sales and or lower persistency of existing business in the near term. The 25 Table of Contents Companys underwriting and pricing strategy may place it in a somewhat competitive disadvantage in the near term, although it is believed that it will produce improved profit margins over time. While price will always be a paramount factor in buying decisions, the Company believes that its products, services, and prices, taken as a whole, give it a competitive position. These steps are intended to position the Company to benefit from a recovering economy and are discussed throughout Item 7. Despite these improvements in 2003, the Companys U.S. brokerage group income protection business line continued to perform below expectations. The key actions to restore the U.S. brokerage group income protection profitability include: Shifting emphasis from revenue growth to profit margin expansion in this line; Raising prices and remaining more disciplined in risk selection; Restoring a more balanced mix of business between small, medium, and large employer customers, shifting the Companys focus from large case business which is often more price sensitive and vulnerable to weak economic conditions; and, Improving the cost structure of the Company and lowering the expense ratios. While taking the actions needed to restore profitability in the Companys U.S. brokerage group income protection business, the Company intends to continue to maintain, if not improve upon, the performance in its other lines of business and subsidiaries. The Companys expectation is that over time the U.S. brokerage group income protection results will improve, and other areas will become more significant contributors to the Companys overall results. The remaining sections of Item 7 discuss the critical accounting policies, significant transactions and events, segment operating results, discontinued operations, consolidated investments, liquidity and capital resources, current debt and financial strength ratings, and other pertinent information for the Company and its insurance subsidiaries. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto contained herein in Item 8. Critical Accounting Policies Reserves for Policy and Contract Benefits The two primary categories of liabilities for policy and contract benefits are policy reserves for claims not yet incurred and claim reserves for claims that have been incurred and have future benefits to be paid. Policy reserves equal the present value of the difference between future policy benefits and expenses and future premiums, allowing a margin for profit. These reserves are applicable for the majority of the Companys business, which is traditional non interest sensitive in nature. The claim payments are estimated using assumptions established when the policy was issued. Throughout the life of the policy, the reserve is based on the original assumptions used for the policys issue year. Ordinarily, generally accepted accounting principles require that these assumptions not be subsequently modified unless the policy reserves are determined to be inadequate. A claim reserve is established when a claim is incurred or is estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported to the Company. Policy reserves for a particular policy continue to be maintained after a claim reserve has been established for as long as the policy remains in force. Claim reserves generally equal the Companys estimate, at the current reporting period, of the present value of the liability for future benefits and expenses to be paid on claims incurred as of that date. A claim reserve for a specific claim is based on assumptions derived from the Companys actual historical experience as to claim duration as well as the specific characteristics of the claimant such as benefits available under the policy, the covered benefit period, and the age and occupation of the claimant. Consideration is given to current and historical trends in the Companys experience and to expected deviations from historical experience that result from changes in benefits available, changes in the Companys risk management policies and procedures, and other economic, environmental, or societal factors. Reserves for claims that are estimated to have already been incurred but that have not yet been reported to the Company are based on factors such as historical claim reporting patterns, the average cost of claims, and the expected volumes of incurred claims. 26 Table of Contents Claim reserves, unlike policy reserves, are subject to revision as current claim experience and projections of future factors affecting claim experience change. In a reporting period, actual experience may deviate from the long term assumptions used to determine the claim reserves. The Company reviews annually, or more frequently as appropriate, emerging experience to ensure that its claim reserves make adequate and reasonable provision for future benefits and expenses. The Companys reserves for group and individual income protection products include a provision for future payments, other than legal expenses, on all claim related lawsuits for which the cause of action has already occurred. This includes known lawsuits and those yet to be filed. The reserve amount is the Companys estimate of the payments on all such lawsuits based on past payments and expected future payments. Claim reserves on continuing operations, net of ceded reinsurance, were $20.4 billion at December 31, 2003. Claim reserves, in general, are an estimate of the current value of future, otherwise unfunded, benefit commitments or liabilities. The calculation of claim reserves involves numerous assumptions. In setting these assumptions, the Company depends upon industry information and experience, Company experience and analysis, and reasoned judgment. There can be no guarantee that these assumptions individually, or collectively, will be duplicated by actual experience over time. The primary assumptions related to claim reserves are the discount rate, the claim resolution rate, and the incidence rate for incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims. The discount rate is the interest rate at which future benefit cash flows are discounted to determine the current value of those cash flows. It is important since higher discount rates produce lower reserves. If the discount rate is higher than future investment returns, the Companys reserves will not earn sufficient investment income to support future liabilities. In this case, the reserves will eventually be insufficient. Alternatively, if a discount rate is chosen that is too low relative to future investment results, the reserve, and thus the claim cost in the current period, will be overstated and profits will be accumulated in the reserves rather than released to current shareholders through earnings. The Company sets its discount rate assumptions very carefully in conjunction with the current and expected future investment income rate of the assets supporting the reserves. If the investment yield at which new investments are purchased is below or above the investment yield of the existing investment portfolio, it is likely that the discount rate on new claims will be established below or above the discount rate on existing claims. It is the Companys intent to use a discount rate that provides some margin for adverse movement in the investment portfolio yield rate. Since policies may receive claim payments for a number of years, it is unlikely that the chosen discount rate assumption will prove to be accurate for any one policy; rather, the discount rate is chosen to apply to many claims with various characteristics of length and severity. The Company uses its experience and analysis of its existing claims and investment performance to determine the appropriate discount rate assumption. Actual claim reserves incurred in the calendar quarter are sensitive to the choice of discount rate. For example, a 25 basis point increase or decrease in the group long term income protection claim discount rate would have changed a quarters incurred claim cost in 2003 by approximately $5.0 million. The claim resolution rate is the rate of probability that a disability claim will close or change due to maximum benefits being paid under the policy, the recovery or death of the insured, or a change in status in any given period. It is important because it is used to estimate how long benefits will be paid for a claim. Estimated resolution rates that are set too high will result in reserves that are lower than they need to be to pay the claim benefits over time. A claim closes due to maximum benefits being paid if all of the contractual benefits under the policy have been paid. A claim also closes if the policyholder recovers from his or her disability and is no longer receiving disability benefit payments or if the policyholder dies in the period. A claim may change status during the period. For example, a policyholder receiving disability benefits may return to part time work, and the claim benefit may be reduced to reflect the change to partial disability. Establishing claim resolution assumptions is very complex and involves many factors, including the cause of disability, the policyholders age, the type of contractual benefits provided, etc. Claim resolution assumptions also vary by duration of disability and time since initially becoming disabled. The Company uses its extensive claim experience and analysis to develop its claim resolution assumptions. Claim resolution experience is studied over a number of years with more weight placed on the more recent experience. Claim resolution assumptions are established to represent the Companys future resolution rate expectations. Due to the individual nature of each claim, it is unlikely that the claim resolution rate will be accurate for any particular claim. The Company establishes its claim resolution assumptions to apply as an average to its large base of active claims. In this manner, the assumed rates are much more accurate over the broad base of claims. Actual claim reserves incurred in the calendar quarter are sensitive to the choice of resolution rate. For example, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in the group long term income protection claim resolution rate would have changed a quarters incurred claim cost in 2003 by approximately $3.0 million. 27 Table of Contents The Company has liability for claims that have been incurred but not reported to the Company and must establish a liability for these claims equal to the present value of the expected benefit payments. In addition to the discount rate and claim resolution rate, the incidence rate is also a primary assumption in the IBNR reserve. The incidence rate is the rate at which new claims per thousand insured lives are submitted to the Company. The incidence rate is affected by many factors including the age of the insured, the insureds occupation or industry, the benefit plan design, and certain external factors such as consumer confidence and levels of unemployment. The Company establishes the incidence assumption using a historical review of actual incidence results along with an outlook of future incidence expectations. As the actual claims are reported and claim reserves are established, the accuracy of the IBNR emerges. While the Company expects its IBNR reserve to be appropriate over the long term, it will not always equal, in a particular reporting period, the actual reserve established for a reported claim. For example, a 10 basis point deviation in the actual incidence rate from that assumed in the IBNR reserve would have resulted in an increase or decrease of approximately $10.0 million in claim reserves established during a quarter in 2003, relative to the IBNR reserve previously established to cover those claims. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs The Company defers certain costs incurred in acquiring new business and amortizes (expenses) these costs over the life of the related policies. Deferred costs include certain commissions, other agency compensation, selection and policy issue expenses, and field expenses. Acquisition costs that do not vary with the production of new business, such as commissions on group products which are generally level throughout the life of the policy, are excluded from deferral. The Company uses its own historical experience and expectation of the future performance of its business in determining the expected life of the policies. Approximately 94 percent of the Companys deferred policy acquisition costs relate to traditional non interest sensitive products, for which the costs are amortized in proportion to the estimated premium income to be received over the life of the policies in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 60, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises. The estimated premium income in the early years of the amortization period is higher than in the later years due to higher anticipated policy persistency in the early years, which results in a greater proportion of the costs being amortized in the early years of the life of the policy. Amortization of deferred costs on traditional products is adjusted to reflect the actual policy persistency as compared to the anticipated experience. The Company will experience accelerated amortization if policies terminate earlier than projected. Deferred costs related to group and individual income protection products are amortized over a twenty year period, with approximately 75 percent and 90 percent of the original deferred costs related to group income protection products expected to be amortized by years ten and fifteen, respectively. For individual income protection policies, approximately 45 percent and 75 percent of the original deferred costs are expected to be amortized by years ten and fifteen, respectively. Deferred costs for group life products are amortized over a fifteen year period, with approximately 85 percent of the cost expected to be amortized by year ten. Deferred costs for group and individual long term care products are amortized over a twenty year period, with approximately 50 percent and 75 percent of the original deferred costs expected to be amortized by years ten and fifteen, respectively. Due to the Companys actual persistency experienced in recent years relative to what was expected when policies were issued, the Company lowered its premium persistency assumptions for costs deferred in 2002 and 2003 for certain of its products to reflect the Companys current estimate of persistency. This accelerates the amortization of group income protection and group life acquisition costs deferred in those years into the early life of the policy. 28 Table of Contents Valuation of Fixed Maturity Securities In determining when a decline in fair value below amortized cost of a fixed maturity security is other than temporary, the Company evaluates the following factors: The probability of recovering principal and interest. The Companys ability and intent to retain the security for a sufficient period of time for it to recover. Whether the security is current as to principal and interest payments. The significance of the decline in value. The time period during which there has been a significant decline in value. Current and future business prospects and trends of earnings. Relevant industry conditions and trends relative to their historical cycles. Market conditions. Rating agency actions. Bid and offering prices and the level of trading activity. Any other key measures for the related security. The Companys review procedures include, but are not limited to, biweekly meetings of certain members of the Companys senior management personnel to review reports on the entire portfolio, identifying investments with changes in market value of five percent or more, investments with changes in rating either by external rating agencies or internal analysts, investments segmented by issuer, industry, and foreign exposure levels, and any other relevant investment information to help identify the Companys exposure to possible credit losses. Based on this review of the entire investment portfolio, individual investments may be added to or removed from the Companys watch list, which is a list of securities subject to enhanced monitoring and a more intensive review. The Company also determines if its investment portfolio is overexposed to an issuer that is showing warning signs of deterioration and, if so, the Company makes no further purchases of that issuers securities and may seek opportunities to sell securities it holds from that issuer to reduce the Companys exposure. The Company monitors below investment grade securities as to individual exposures and in comparison to the entire portfolio as an additional credit risk management strategy, looking specifically at the Companys exposure to individual securities currently classified as below investment grade. In determining current and future business prospects and cash availability, the Company considers the parental support of an issuer in its analysis but does not rely heavily on this support. If the Company determines that the decline in value of an investment is other than temporary, the investment is written down to fair value, and an impairment loss is recognized in the current period to the extent of the decline in value. If the decline is considered temporary, the security continues to be carefully monitored. These controls have been established to identify the Companys exposure to possible credit losses and are intended to give the Company the ability to respond rapidly. The Company has no held to maturity fixed maturity securities. All fixed maturity securities are classified as available for sale and are reported at fair value. Fair values are based on quoted market prices, where available. Private placement fixed maturity securities, including the fixed maturity securities reported as discontinued operations, had a carrying value of approximately $3.7 billion, or 12.0 percent of total fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2003. Private placement fixed maturity securities do not have readily determinable market prices. For these securities, the Company uses internally prepared valuations combining matrix pricing with vendor purchased software programs, including valuations based on estimates of future profitability, to estimate the fair value. Additionally, the Company obtains prices from independent third party brokers to establish valuations for certain of these securities. The Companys ability to liquidate its positions in some of these securities could be impacted to a significant degree by the lack of an actively traded market, and the Company may not be able to dispose of these investments in a timely manner. Although the Company believes its estimates reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about the risk free interest rates, risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any), and other factors involve significant assumptions and may not reflect those of an active market. The Company believes that generally these private placement securities carry a credit quality comparable to companies rated Baa or BBB by major credit rating organizations. 29 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2003, the key assumptions used to estimate the fair value of private placement fixed maturity securities included the following: Risk free interest rates of 3.25 percent for five year maturities to 5.07 percent for 30 year maturities were derived from the current yield curve for U.S. Treasury Bonds with similar maturities. Current Baa corporate bond spreads ranging from 0.64 percent to 1.52 percent plus an additional 30 basis points were added to the risk free rate to consider the lack of liquidity. An additional five basis points were added to the risk free rates for foreign investments. Additional basis points were added as deemed appropriate for certain industries and for individual securities in certain industries that are considered to be of greater risk. Increasing the 30 basis points added to the risk free rate for lack of liquidity by 1.5 basis points, increasing the five basis points added to the risk free rates for foreign investments by one basis point, and increasing the additional basis points added to each industry considered to be of greater risk by one basis point would have decreased the December 31, 2003 net unrealized gain in the fixed maturity securities portfolio by approximately $2.4 million. Historically, the Companys realized gains or losses on dispositions of its private placement fixed maturity securities have not varied significantly from amounts estimated under the valuation methodology described above. Changes in the fair value of fixed maturity securities, other than declines that are determined to be other than temporary, are reported as a component of other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. If it is subsequently determined that any of these securities are other than temporarily impaired, the impairment loss is reported as a realized investment loss in the consolidated statements of operations. The recognition of the impairment loss does not affect total stockholders equity to the extent that the decline in value had been previously reflected in other comprehensive income. There are a number of significant risks inherent in the process of monitoring the Companys fixed maturity securities for impairments and determining when and if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include the following possibilities: The assessment of a borrowers ability to meet its contractual obligations will change. The economic outlook, either domestic or foreign, may be less favorable or may have a more significant impact on the borrower than anticipated, and as such, the security may not recover in value. New information may become available concerning the security, such as disclosure of accounting irregularities, fraud, or corporate governance issues. Significant changes in credit spreads may occur in the related industry. Adverse rating agency actions may occur. Reinsurance Receivable Reinsurance is a contractual agreement whereby the Companys reinsurance partners assume a defined portion of the risk for future benefits payable under reinsurance contracts. The reinsurance receivable reported as an asset in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition includes amounts due from the Companys reinsurers on current claims and estimates of amounts that will be due on future claims. Policy reserves and claim reserves reported in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition are not reduced for reinsurance. The reinsurance receivable is generally equal to the policy reserves and claim reserves related to the risk being reinsured. The Company reduces the reinsurance receivable if recovery is not likely due to the financial position of the reinsurer or if there is disagreement between the Company and the reinsurer regarding the liability of the reinsurer. Goodwill Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the net of the amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is not amortized, but the Company reviews on an annual basis the carrying amount of goodwill for indications of impairment, with consideration given to financial performance and other relevant factors. In accordance with accounting guidance, the Company tests for impairment at either the operating segment level or one level below. In addition, certain events including, but not limited to, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business environment, an adverse action by a regulator or rating agency, or unanticipated competition 30 Table of Contents would cause the Company to review goodwill for impairment more frequently than annually. Changes in the Companys businesses, such as the sale of the Canadian branch, may require impairment testing and can result in impairment. Changes in the Companys reporting segments can change the level at which goodwill is tested and may result in an impairment of goodwill at the time the reporting segments are changed. The goodwill reported as an asset in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition is attributable primarily to the acquisition of Paul Revere and relates to individual income protection business. The impairment testing for the individual income protection goodwill involves estimating the fair value of the individual income protection block of business based upon the present value of future cash flows using assumptions as to future sales, morbidity experience, portfolio yield rate, and the rate of return at which the Company believes the market would price the business for purchase. Adverse changes in any of these factors could result in an impairment of goodwill. Income Taxes The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Companys valuation allowance relates primarily to foreign net operating loss carryforwards. The Company has considered forecasted earnings, future taxable income, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event the Company determines that it might not be able to realize all or part of the net deferred tax assets in the future, an increase to the valuation allowance would be charged to earnings in the period such determination is made. Likewise, if it is later determined that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax assets would be realized, the previously provided valuation allowance would be reversed. The amount of income taxes paid by the Company is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect profitability. Management believes that adequate accruals have been provided for all years; however, the amount ultimately paid upon resolution of issues raised could differ materially from the amount accrued. 2003 Significant Transactions and Events Acquisitions and Dispositions During 2003, the Companys insurance subsidiary in the United Kingdom, Unum Limited, acquired the United Kingdom group income protection business of Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (UK) Ltd (Sun Life) together with the renewal rights to Sun Lifes group life business, at a price of approximately $37.2 million. Also in 2003, Unum Limited entered into an agreement with Swiss Life (UK) plc (Swiss Life) wherein Unum Limited would become responsible for the ongoing administration and management of the United Kingdom portion of Swiss Lifes group income protection claims portfolio, and Swiss Life would also reinsure this portfolio to Unum Limited. Unum Limited will also become a multi national pooling partner for Swiss Life Insurance & Pension Company with respect to business written in the United Kingdom. The arrangement became effective January 1, 2004. During 2003, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Canadian branch to RBC Insurance, the insurance operation of Royal Bank of Canada. The transaction is expected to improve the statutory capital position of the Companys insurance subsidiary which currently owns the Canadian branch, Provident Life and Accident Insurance Company, and is expected to close during the first half of 2004. The Canadian branch is accounted for as an asset held for sale at December 31, 2003 and also meets the accounting criteria for being reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. In conjunction with the classification of the Canadian branch as an asset held for sale, the Company tested the goodwill related to the Canadian branch for impairment and determined that the balance of $190.9 million was impaired. The Company also recognized a loss of $9.3 million before tax and $6.0 million after tax to write down the value of bonds in the Canadian branch investment portfolio to market value. These two charges, which total $196.9 million after tax, are included in the 2003 loss from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. See Discontinued Operations contained herein in Item 7 and Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of the Companys discontinued operations. 31 Table of Contents With the goal of focusing on its core operations, in 2003, the Company entered into agreements to sell its Japanese operation and reduce its ownership position in its Argentinean operation. The Company entered into an agreement to sell its wholly owned subsidiary Unum Japan Accident Insurance Co., Ltd. to Hitachi Capital Corporation (Hitachi). The Company also entered into an agreement with Hitachi to reinsure certain existing income protection business and intends to have a continuing presence in these operations for at least one year. The Japanese operation is accounted for as an asset held for sale, and in conjunction with that classification, during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recognized an impairment loss of $1.2 million before tax and $0.8 million after tax. The Company also recognized a tax benefit of $6.8 million. The transaction closed in January 2004. Regarding the Companys reduction of its ownership position in its Argentinean operation, the Company entered into an agreement in principle that will result, upon completion of the restructuring, in a 40 percent Company ownership interest in the Argentinean operation. The transaction is expected to close in March 2004, subject to the execution and closing of a definitive agreement and approval by Argentine regulators. The Argentinean operation is accounted for as an asset held for sale at December 31, 2003, but not as a discontinued operation because of the Companys partial ownership and continuing involvement in the operation after the transaction is completed. During the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recognized an impairment loss of $13.5 million before tax and $11.3 million after tax related to this operation. Furthering its goal of divesting its non core operations, during 2003, the Company reinsured on a 100 percent indemnity coinsurance basis for non New York policies and a 90 percent indemnity coinsurance basis for New York policies certain of its insurance policies sold through trade associations and ceded approximately $121.0 million of reserves to the reinsurer. The annual premium on the block reinsured was approximately $40.0 million and related primarily to individual income protection policies. The transaction had an effective date of April 1, 2003. Financing In order to strengthen its capital position, during 2003, the Company issued 45,980,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, in a public offering and received approximately $476.3 million in proceeds from the sale of the shares after deducting underwriting discounts. Also in 2003, the Company issued 20,000,000 8.25% adjustable conversion rate equity security units (units) in a public offering and received approximately $485.0 million in proceeds from the sale of the units after deducting underwriting discounts. Subsequently in 2003, the Company sold 6,897,000 additional shares of common stock and 3,000,000 additional units pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters overallotment option relating to the above offering resulting in proceeds to the Company of approximately $71.4 million and approximately $72.8 million, respectively, after deducting underwriting discounts. Each unit has a stated amount of $25 and will initially consist of (a) a contract pursuant to which the holder agrees to purchase, for $25, shares of the Companys common stock on May 15, 2006 and (b) a 1/40, or 2.5%, ownership interest in a senior note issued by the Company due May 15, 2008 with a principal amount of $1,000. Proceeds from the offerings were used primarily to increase the capitalization of the Companys insurance subsidiaries and to repay amounts loaned to the Company from its insurance subsidiaries. Upon settlement of the common stock purchase contract and successful remarketing of the senior note element of the units, the Company will receive proceeds of approximately $575.0 million and will issue between 43.3 million and 52.9 million shares of common stock. Reserve Strengthening In April 2003, the Company completed an analysis of its assumptions related to its group long term income protection claim reserves. Included in the analysis was a review of active claim reserves, IBNR reserves, and claim reopen reserves. An active claim reserve is established for future benefit payments when a claim is incurred and reported to the Company. IBNR reserves are established on claims which are estimated to have been incurred but not yet reported to the Company. Claim reopen reserves are established for those claimants who have previously recovered but who are anticipated to return to disabled status under the same disability and within a specified period of time, as contractually allowed by the disability policy. The analysis was initiated based on lower claim resolution rates observed during the first quarter of 2003. The claim resolution rate is the rate of probability that a disability claimant will recover, die, or reach maximum benefit limits and no longer receive benefit payments from the Company. Generally, claim resolution rates vary by the age of the claimant at the time of disability, duration or length of time since the disability initially occurred, and claim diagnosis. The claim resolution rates for group long term income protection during the first quarter of 2003 were below levels anticipated for reserves and were lower 32 Table of Contents than those experienced in the full years 2002, 2001, and 2000. The analysis indicated not only a decrease in overall claim resolution rates, but also a change in claim resolution rates by claim duration. The analysis of emerging claim resolution rates and the reasons driving the changes resulted in a reduction in the Companys long term expectations with respect to claim resolution rates. The Companys long term expectations applied to all claims incurred regardless of the date of incurral. In addition, the Company reviewed the reserve discount rate, which is the interest rate at which future cash flows for benefit and expenses to be paid are discounted to determine the current value of those cash flows. The Company concluded at that time that a change in its discount rate assumptions was not warranted. Based on the April 2003 analysis, in the first quarter of 2003 the Company increased its group long term income protection claim reserves by $454.0 million before tax, or $295.1 million after tax, to reflect its current estimate of future benefit obligations. The active claim reserve for claims already reported to the Company and still in open claim status was increased by $516.0 million, the IBNR reserve was decreased by $23.0 million, and the reopen reserve was decreased by $39.0 million before tax. The first quarter 2003 change represented a 6.5 percent increase in total net group long term income protection reserves as of March 31, 2003, which for continuing operations equaled $7.017 billion prior to this increase and equaled $6.618 billion as of December 31, 2002. In January 2004, the Company completed its annual review of claim reserves to ensure that its claim reserves make adequate and reasonable provision for future benefits and expenses. Based upon this review, as of December 31, 2003, the Company increased its group long term income protection claim reserves by $421.0 million and its group short term income protection claim reserves by $19.0 million, for a total increase of $440.0 million before tax and $286.0 million after tax. Approximately $300.0 million of the reserve strengthening reflected implementation of a lower discount rate for the Companys group income protection claim reserves. The discount rate was lowered to reflect the Companys actual change in investment portfolio yield rates during 2003, the expectation of future investment portfolio yield rates, and the Companys new discount rate management approach of maintaining a wider spread between its group income protection portfolio investment yield rate and its average discount rate. The Companys new discount rate management approach is intended to better reflect the current investment environment and position the Company to be more responsive with discount rates on new incurred claims as changes to the investment environment emerge. Approximately $140.0 million of the reserve increase related to a strengthening of the morbidity assumptions to reflect the impact of the Companys view of a continuing jobless economic recovery on claim incidence and severity. Of this amount, approximately $64.0 million was established to reflect higher claim incidence expectations. Claim incidence in the second half of 2003 was 8.4 percent higher than the first half of the year and 5.8 percent above the second half of 2002. The Companys January 2004 review indicated that claim incidence is expected to continue at an elevated level for several quarters as the Company believes that early indications of a recovering economy are not yet reflected in improved consumer confidence or job creation. Also included in the $140.0 million strengthening was approximately $76.0 million to reflect higher severity expectations driven primarily by a lengthening of claim duration expectations in those claims that have been open 36 months or longer. The $440.0 million reserve increase represented a 5.4 percent increase in total net group income protection reserves as of December 31, 2003, which totaled $8.186 billion prior to this increase. Accounting Pronouncements FIN 46 Effective December 31, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 46 (FIN 46), Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, an Interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin (ARB) No. 51. FIN 46 expands upon ARB No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements, to address financial accounting and reporting for certain entities in which a controlling financial interest cannot be identified based on an evaluation of voting interests. Transition to the provisions of FIN 46 required the Company to consolidate four special purpose entities whose purposes are to support the Companys investment objectives. Prior to December 31, 2003, these entities were accounted for as fixed maturity securities in the available for sale portfolio and carried at fair value which was derived from the fair value of the underlying assets. These entities are securitized asset trusts and contain specific financial instruments that do not include the Companys common stock or debt. Three of these entities are trusts holding forward contracts to purchase unrelated equity securities. Each of these trusts also holds a defeasance swap contract for highly rated bonds to provide principal protection for the investments. The fair value of the underlying forward and swap contracts was $133.9 million at the time of transition to FIN 46, which was equivalent to the fair value at which they would have been reported as fixed maturity securities prior to the adoption of FIN 46. The 33 Table of Contents fourth entity is a trust containing a highly rated bond for principal protection, unrelated equity securities, and several partnership equity investments. The Company contributed the bond and partnership investments into the trust at the time it was established. The purpose of this trust was to allow the Company to maintain its investment in the partnerships while at the same time protecting the principal of the investment. The fair values of the bond, equity securities, and partnerships were $61.8 million, $7.0 million, and $51.7 million, respectively, at the time of transition to FIN 46, which were equivalent to the fair values at which they would have been reported as fixed maturity securities. The adoption of FIN 46 had no impact on the fair value of total invested assets reported in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition. Adoption of FIN 46 also resulted in the de consolidation of a trust that currently holds $300.0 million of junior subordinated debt securities of the Company and has issued a similar amount of mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. The impact of the de consolidation was the elimination of the company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated debt securities of the company included in the consolidated statements of financial condition and an increase of $300.0 million in long term debt. See Notes 1, 4, and 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of FIN 46. Derivatives Implementation Group Issue B36 Effective October 1, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 Implementation Issue B36 (DIG Issue B36), Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposure That Are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Obligor Under Those Instruments. DIG Issue B36 addresses financial accounting and reporting for embedded derivatives in modified coinsurance contracts that incorporate credit risk exposure unrelated to the credit risk of the counterparty to the reinsurance contract and requires the bifurcation of any such derivative from the host reinsurance contract. The change in the fair value of the derivative is reported as a realized investment gain or loss during the period of change. The Company has two reinsurance contracts for which DIG Issue B36 is applicable. Transition to the provisions of DIG Issue B36 required the Company to value the credit risk provisions in these contracts as derivatives. The derivatives are now reported in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition at their current fair values, with the change in fair value since inception of the reinsurance contracts up to the date of adoption reported as a cumulative effect of accounting principle change. The Company includes in miscellaneous assets a deposit asset for one of the applicable reinsurance contracts. The deposit asset is comprised of the Companys experience layer and previously included unrealized gains or losses on the marketable securities held in the trust. Under the provisions of DIG Issue B36, the Company will no longer report the unrealized gains or losses on the marketable securities held in the trust as an adjustment to the value of the deposit asset. The unrealized gain or loss is now attributed to the value of the embedded derivative and is reported as such. The adoption of DIG Issue B36 resulted in an increase in fixed maturity securities of $61.3 million to record the fair value of the embedded derivatives, a decrease of $116.1 million in miscellaneous assets, $18.4 million in reinsurance receivable, and $134.5 million in accumulated other comprehensive income (net unrealized gain on securities) to eliminate the previously reported adjustment to fair value of the marketable securities held in the trust and the related effects on claim reserves, and a $39.9 million cumulative effect of accounting principle change, net of $21.4 million in tax. The fair value of the embedded derivatives related to these reinsurance contracts was $62.1 million as of December 31, 2003. See Item 8, Notes 1 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Stock Compensation The Company has various stock based employee compensation plans. Prior to 2003, the Company accounted for those plans under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations. Effective January 1, 2003, the Company adopted the fair value recognition provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and selected the prospective method of adoption allowed under the 34 Table of Contents provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure. The adoption increased before tax operating expenses for 2003 approximately $0.9 million. Other Continued declines in the performance of equity investment markets combined with steadily increasing pension liabilities reduced the Companys U.S. and foreign pension plans funding levels such that in December 2002, in accordance with the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS 87), the Company recorded a $145.0 million non cash minimum pension liability adjustment, net of tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. In December 2003, as a result of improvements in the performance of the equity investment markets, the Company reduced the non cash minimum pension liability adjustment by $19.7 million, net of tax. The Companys net periodic benefit cost for its U.S. and foreign pension plans, which is calculated in accordance with SFAS 87, increased in 2003 due to the decline in the stock market and the general decline in overall corporate bond yields used to establish the discount rate for projecting the benefit obligation. The net periodic benefit cost for 2003 was $51.8 million compared to a $2.7 million net periodic benefit cost for 2002. Based on projections as of December 31, 2003, the Company estimates its net periodic benefit cost for 2004 will be in the range of $56.0 million to $60.0 million. See Pension and Postretirement Benefits Plans contained herein for further discussion. 2002 Significant Transactions and Events Effective January 1, 2002, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142 (SFAS 142), Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. SFAS 142 addresses financial accounting and reporting for acquired goodwill and other intangible assets. Under SFAS 142, goodwill is no longer amortized but is subject to annual impairment tests. Other intangible assets continue to be amortized over their useful lives. Transition to the provisions of SFAS 142 required the Company to complete, within the year of adoption, transitional impairment tests of goodwill existing at January 1, 2002, measured as of that date using a fair value approach. The Company had previously, prior to the adoption of SFAS 142, used undiscounted cash flows to determine if goodwill was recoverable. The Company completed the required tests during 2002 and determined the carrying value of its goodwill should be reduced $11.0 million. The charge, net of a $3.9 million tax benefit, was $7.1 million and is reported as a cumulative effect of accounting principle change in the consolidated statements of operations. In 2002, the Company completed two long term offerings, issuing $250.0 million of 7.375% senior debentures due June 15, 2032 and $150.0 million of 7.250% public income notes due June 15, 2032. The public income notes are redeemable at the Companys option, in whole or in part, on or after June 25, 2007. Proceeds from the offerings were used to refinance existing commercial paper borrowings. As previously discussed, in December 2002, the Company recorded a $145.0 million non cash minimum pension liability adjustment, net of deferred federal income tax, to accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. During 2002, the Company acquired whereiwork, a provider of online solutions for insurance enrollment, communications, administration, and analysis, at a price of $2.8 million. This acquisition has served to strengthen and broaden the Companys internet based benefits services currently offered to brokers and employers. 2001 Significant Transactions and Events The September 11, 2001 tragedy resulted in a 2001 before tax charge of $24.0 million, or $15.6 million after tax. This charge included estimated gross ultimate losses from reported and unreported claims of $65.0 million less an estimated $41.0 million recoverable from the Companys reinsurers. The charge did not include any indirect costs which the Company incurred in developing specialized procedures for filing claims resulting from the attacks and in providing additional support to affected policyholders and group clients. The Companys reinsurance program 35 Table of Contents provided a significant layer of catastrophic coverage for its individual disability and its group life, accidental death and dismemberment, travel accident, long term disability, and short term disability lines of business. During 2001, the Company entered into an agreement to limit its liabilities pertaining to the Lloyds syndicate participations. Separately, the Company also reinsured 100 percent of the group disability reinsurance reserves and all future business underwritten and managed by Duncanson and Holt Services, Inc., a subsidiary of D&H. The transaction, in which reserves of approximately $323.8 million were ceded to the reinsurer, had an effective date of January 1, 2001. In a separate but related transaction, the Company also sold the reinsurance management operations of Duncanson and Holt Services, Inc. and divested the remaining assets of that facility. During 2001, the Company reinsured on a 100 percent indemnity coinsurance basis certain cancer policies written by one of the Companys insurance subsidiaries and ceded approximately $113.6 million of reserves to the reinsurer. The transaction had an effective date of November 1, 2001. During 2001, the Company redeemed its $172.5 million par value 8.8% monthly income debt securities (junior subordinated debt), which were due in 2025 but callable at par in 2000 and thereafter. This early redemption was expected to lower the Companys financing costs in 2002 through the use of commercial paper available at lower interest rates. The early extinguishment of debt resulted in a write off of the remaining deferred debt cost of $4.5 million associated with the issuance of the securities, which decreased net income $2.9 million. In 2001, the Company acquired the assets of EmployeeLife.com, an Internet Capital Group partner company. This acquisition has served to enhance customer service by offering internet business solutions to help employers efficiently manage and administer employee benefits. The Company also acquired Resource Opportunities, Inc. (ROI), a national provider of medical and vocational case management services. ROI has helped improve GENEXs ability to service its customers, in turn benefiting the Companys insurance customers. Also in 2001, the Company sold Provident National Assurance Company, an inactive insurance subsidiary. Provident National Assurance Companys general account liabilities were reinsured by another subsidiary of the Company, and the excess capital and surplus was transferred to the parent to reduce short term borrowings. During 2001, the Company wrote off the remaining goodwill balance related to its operation in Argentina, resulting in a $5.4 million decrease in income before tax and net income. In 2001, the Company recognized a tax benefit of $35.2 million related to its investment in the foreign reinsurance operations, which lowered the 2001 tax rate below the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35 percent. Additionally, as a result of tax legislation enacted in the United Kingdom during 2000 that allows additional group tax relief among companies with common ownership, the Company began recognizing foreign tax benefits during 2001. 36 Table of Contents Consolidated Operating Results The following table presents consolidated financial information for the years indicated. (in millions of dollars) Year Ended December 31 2003 % Change 2002 % Change 2001 Revenue Premium Income $ 7,615.7 6.5 % $ 7,151.1 5.2 % $ 6,797.2 Net Investment Income 2,158.4 6.4 2,028.9 4.0 1,951.1 Net Realized Investment Loss (173.8 ) (43.8 ) (309.1 ) 209.1 (100.0 ) Other Income 391.3 0.8 388.2 9.6 354.2 Total 9,991.6 7.9 9,259.1 2.9 9,002.5 Benefits and Expenses Benefits and Change in Reserves for Future Benefits 7,868.1 24.4 6,324.8 5.7 5,983.9 Commissions 844.1 2.9 820.2 10.2 744.1 Interest and Debt Expense 187.2 15.3 162.4 (4.2 ) 169.6 Deferral of Policy Acquisition Costs (665.9 ) (0.8 ) (671.4 ) 1.7 (660.5 ) Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs 458.6 15.0 398.9 (5.6 ) 422.6 Amortization of Value of Business Acquired 37.5 (3.8 ) 39.0 (13.5 ) 45.1 Amortization of Goodwill N.M. N.M. 21.2 Compensation Expense 779.8 6.5 732.2 3.5 707.2 Other Operating Expenses 917.4 6.7 859.8 5.4 815.5 Total 10,426.8 20.3 8,665.9 5.1 8,248.7 Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Before Income Tax and Cumulative Effect of Accounting Principle Change (435.2 ) (173.4 ) 593.2 (21.3 ) 753.8 Income Tax (Benefit) (170.6 ) (186.9 ) 196.3 (9.2 ) 216.1 Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Principle Change (264.6 ) (166.7 ) 396.9 (26.2 ) 537.7 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax (161.7 ) N.M. 11.4 225.7 3.5 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Principle Change, Net of Tax 39.9 N.M. (7.1 ) N.M. Net Income (Loss) $ (386.4 ) (196.3 ) $ 401.2 (25.9 ) $ 541.2 N.M. not a meaningful percentage 37 Table of Contents Consolidated Sales Results (in millions of dollars) Year Ended December 31 2003 % Change 2002 % Change 2001 Income Protection Segment Fully Insured Products Group Long term Income Protection $ 380.6 (0.4 )% $ 382.2 0.5 % $ 380.4 Group Short term Income Protection 127.2 (1.6 ) 129.3 (20.7 ) 163.0 Individual Income Protection 134.9 (8.1 ) 146.8 6.1 138.3 Group Long term Care 27.0 14.9 23.5 8.3 21.7 Individual Long term Care 43.9 (31.1 ) 63.7 18.4 53.8 Total Fully Insured Products 713.6 (4.3 ) 745.5 (1.5 ) 757.2 Administrative Services Only (ASO) Products Group Long term Income Protection 6.5 35.4 4.8 220.0 1.5 Group Short term Income Protection 14.4 (28.7 ) 20.2 62.9 12.4 Total ASO Products 20.9 (16.4 ) 25.0 79.9 13.9 Income Protection Segment 734.5 (4.7 ) 770.5 (0.1 ) 771.1 Life and Accident Segment Group Life 269.3 (6.7 ) 288.6 (16.6 ) 346.2 Accidental Death & Dismemberment 26.6 (35.3 ) 41.1 (22.9 ) 53.3 Brokerage Voluntary Life and Other 75.3 31.0 57.5 37.6 41.8 Life and Accident Segment 371.2 (4.1 ) 387.2 (12.3 ) 441.3 Colonial Segment 285.2 10.9 257.1 5.8 243.0 Total Sales from Continuing Operations 1,390.9 (1.7 ) 1,414.8 (2.8 ) 1,455.4 Discontinued Operations 36.6 6.1 34.5 (12.9 ) 39.6 Total $ 1,427.5 (1.5 ) $ 1,449.3 (3.1 ) $ 1,495.0 The Company has field sales personnel who specialize in (1) employer provided plans for employees and (2) supplemental benefit plans that include multi life income protection and long term care product offerings and products sold to groups of employees through payroll deduction at the workplace. These field sales personnel partner with Company representatives from claims, customer service, and underwriting who work in conjunction with independent brokers and consultants to present coverage solutions to potential customers and to manage existing customer accounts. The Company focuses on integrated selling and expects that this organizational focus on customers will continue to favorably affect sales growth, but management intends to maintain pricing discipline to balance sales growth and profitability, which may slow the rate of long term sales growth. The Company also utilizes an agency field sales force to market the products offered by its Colonial segment. 38 Table of Contents During 2003, the Company introduced a distribution model for the sale of individual income protection and individual long term care insurance products reported in the income protection segment whereby independent brokers and consultants are provided direct access to a sales support center centrally located in the Companys corporate offices. Previously, sales of most single policies had been handled through the Companys field sales organization. The Company intends to maintain its focus on workplace customers and increased integration between individual multi life and group offerings by continuing to provide highly focused field support. Existing market share, as well as trends in new sales, are indicators of the Companys potential for growth in its respective markets and the level of market acceptance of price changes and new products. Sales may fluctuate significantly due to case size and timing of sales submissions. Negative media attention or downgrades in the financial strength ratings of the Companys insurance subsidiaries may adversely affect the Companys ability to grow sales and renew its existing business. The results shown above are discussed under the segment operating results, as applicable. Prior year amounts have been restated to conform to current year reporting of ASO fees, which were previously reported on a premium equivalent basis. Segment Operating Results As previously discussed in Item 1 contained herein, effective January 1, 2003, the Companys new segment reporting includes the following five business segments: Income Protection segment, Life and Accident segment, Colonial segment, Other segment, and Corporate segment. Prior year numbers have been reclassified to conform to the new segment reporting. In the following segment financial data and discussions of segment operating results, operating revenue excludes net realized investment gains and losses. Operating income or operating loss excludes net realized investment gains and losses, income tax, results of discontinued operations, and cumulative effects of accounting principle changes. These are considered non GAAP financial measures. A non GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a companys performance, financial position, or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These non GAAP financial measures of operating revenue and operating income or operating loss differ from revenue and income (loss) from continuing operations before income tax and cumulative effect of accounting principle changes as presented in the Companys consolidated operating results reported herein and in income statements prepared in accordance with GAAP due to the exclusion of before tax realized investment gains and losses. The Company measures segment performance for purposes of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information, excluding realized investment gains and losses because management believes that this performance measure is a better indicator of the ongoing businesses and the underlying trends in the businesses. The Companys investment focus is on investment income to support its insurance liabilities as opposed to the generation of realized investment gains and losses, and a long term focus is necessary to maintain profitability over the life of the business. Realized investment gains and losses are dependent on market conditions and not necessarily related to decisions regarding the underlying business of the Companys segments. However, income or loss excluding realized investment gains and losses does not replace net income or net loss as a measure of the Companys overall profitability. Due to factors discussed under Risk Factors Investments contained herein in Item 1 and the Companys exposure to below investment grade fixed maturity securities, as discussed in a subsequent section of this Managements Discussion and Analysis, the Company may experience realized investment losses. The realization of investment gains and losses will affect future earnings levels as the underlying business is long term in nature and requires that the Company be able to earn the assumed interest rates in its liabilities. A reconciliation of total operating revenue by segment to total consolidated revenue and total operating income or loss by segment to consolidated net income or loss is as follows. 39 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 (in millions of dollars) Operating Revenue by Segment $ 10,165.4 $ 9,568.2 $ 9,102.5 Net Realized Investment Loss (173.8 ) (309.1 ) (100.0 ) Revenue $ 9,991.6 $ 9,259.1 $ 9,002.5 Operating Income (Loss) by Segment $ (261.4 ) $ 902.3 $ 853.8 Net Realized Investment Loss (173.8 ) (309.1 ) (100.0 ) Income Tax (Benefit) (170.6 ) 196.3 216.1 Income (Loss) from Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax (161.7 ) 11.4 3.5 Cumulative Effect of Accounting Principle Change, Net of Tax 39.9 (7.1 ) Net Income (Loss) $ (386.4 ) $ 401.2 $ 541.2 As previously noted, the Company has entered into an agreement to dispose of its Canadian branch. Due to this agreement, the results of the Canadian branch are reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations in each of the years for which results are presented. Accordingly, the discussion of results by segment below does not include amounts related to those operations. The sale of the Companys Japanese operation does not meet the accounting criteria for discontinued operations because of the Companys ongoing reinsurance arrangement with the buyer of that company. 40 Table of Contents Income Protection Segment Operating Results (in millions of dollars) Year Ended December 31 2003 % Change 2002 % Change 2001 Operating Revenue Premium Income Group Long term Income Protection $ 2,402.9 9.3 % $ 2,198.7 7.1 % $ 2,053.5 Group Short term Income Protection 630.9 4.9 601.6 6.1 567.2 Individual Income Protection Recently Issued 498.6 14.7 434.6 10.4 393.8 Individual Income Protection Closed Block 1,028.5 (7.0 ) 1,106.3 (2.7 ) 1,136.8 Group Long term Care 124.5 20.4 103.4 27.5 81.1 Individual Long term Care 280.1 20.5 232.4 28.9 180.3 Total Premium Income 4,965.5 6.2 4,677.0 6.0 4,412.7 Net Investment Income 1,713.2 7.2 1,597.6 7.8 1,482.0 Other Income 332.9 10.4 301.5 13.9 264.6 Total 7,011.6 6.6 6,576.1 6.8 6,159.3 Benefits and Expenses Benefits and Change in Reserves for Future Benefits 5,847.5 32.6 4,408.9 8.1 4,079.7 Commissions 491.1 (3.4 ) 508.3 10.5 460.0 Deferral of Policy Acquisition Costs (340.6 ) (9.1 ) (374.6 ) 0.7 (372.1 ) Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs 232.3 13.6 204.5 (3.2 ) 211.2 Amortization of Value of Business Acquired 36.6 (1.3 ) 37.1 (13.3 ) 42.8 Operating Expenses 1,249.0 6.8 1,169.7 6.8 1,094.8 Total 7,515.9 26.2 5,953.9 7.9 5,516.4 Operating Income (Loss) Before Income Tax and Net Realized Investment Loss $ (504.3 ) (181.1 ) $ 622.2 (3.2 ) $ 642.9 The Income Protection segment includes the group long term and short term income protection insurance, recently issued and closed block lines of individual income protection insurance, group and individual long term care, and managed disability. Sales Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Group long term income protection sales on a fully insured basis decreased 0.4 percent during 2003 compared to 2002. The slight net decline occurred in the Companys U.S. market, with a decline in the large employer market more than offsetting growth in the small and mid employer markets. Sales increased in the mid employer market during 2003 as the Company began to shift its focus to this market, which is comprised of groups of 500 to 1,999 lives. The decrease in the U.S. sales was partially offset by growth of 42.9 percent in the Companys United Kingdom operations. The Company also offers accounts handled on an administrative services only (ASO) basis, with the risk and responsibility for funding claim payments remaining with the customer. The Company reports the fee income on ASO business in other income. For ASO business, sales increased 35.4 percent for group long term income protection relative to the prior year. Group short term income protection sales for fully insured business decreased 1.6 percent while the ASO business decreased 28.7 percent in 2003 compared to 2002. The comparative decline for 2003 versus 2002 in short term income protection ASO sales was primarily due to a large case sold in 2002. 41 Table of Contents Sales for individual income protection decreased 8.1 percent in 2003 relative to the prior year. Sales increased 40.7 percent in the Companys brokerage voluntary income protection line of business, offset by declines in the Companys United Kingdom operations and in the Companys U.S. operations for non voluntary income protection. The sales decline occurred primarily in the U.S. individual sales market rather than in the multi life market. The portion of the individual income protection sales attributable to multi life business in the Companys U.S. operations was approximately 77 percent of 2003 sales and 73 percent for full year 2002 sales. Sales for group long term care increased 14.9 percent over the prior year, while sales for individual long term care decreased 31.1 percent. As previously discussed, during 2003, the Company introduced a new distribution model for the sale of individual income protection and individual long term care insurance products which will enable the Company to maintain its focus on workplace customers and increased integration between individual multi life and group offerings. The Company also introduced changes in the individual long term care product offering during 2003. These actions may slow the growth in sales of non multi life individual income protection and individual long term care insurance relative to historical trends. The Company expects that the rate of sales growth for both group and individual income protection products may decline due to the current competitive pricing environment. The Company intends to continue to emphasize premium growth through a balance of new sales, renewal programs, and persistency of the existing block of business, but no assurance can be given that such premium growth will occur or be sustainable. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001 Fully insured sales for group long term income protection increased $1.8 million in 2002 compared to the prior year. The Companys U.S. operations reported a decrease of 3.8 percent, partially offset by a 19.4 percent sales increase in the Companys United Kingdom operations. Sales in the U.S. operations declined in all case size markets, with the largest percentage decrease occurring in the small employer market. Fully insured sales for short term income protection were down 20.7 percent in 2002 compared to the prior year due to a decline in sales in all case size markets. Sales for short term income protection ASO increased 62.9 percent compared to 2001. Persistency and Renewal of Existing Business The Company monitors persistency of its existing business and reflects adverse changes in persistency in the current periods amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. One way in which the Company monitors persistency is at the overall block of business level (i.e., group long term income protection, group short term income protection, and individual income protection). Persistency, at the overall block of business level, is the year to date rate at which existing business for all issue years in the block of business at the beginning of the period remains inforce at the end of the period. In determining whether additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs is required due to adverse persistency, the Company measures persistency by issue year (i.e., the rate at which existing business for that specific issue year at the beginning of the period remains inforce at the end of the period). The rate of persistency for an overall block of business may improve while individual issue years within the overall block of business may deteriorate and require additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. Persistency during 2003 for the overall block of group long term income protection on average improved from that experienced in 2002. Persistency for fully insured short term income protection also improved, on average, over the prior year. Persistency for short term income protection ASO business declined relative to 2002. During 2002 and 2001, persistency for group long term and short term income protection was lower for certain issue years when compared to the persistency expected at the time the business was written. This resulted in additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs of $12.9 million in 2002 and $26.3 million in 2001 for group income protection. There was no additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs in 2003. Since the Companys actual persistency experienced in recent years was lower than that expected when policies were issued, the Company lowered its premium persistency assumptions for costs deferred in 2002 and 2003 to reflect its current estimate of persistency. This accelerates the amortization of group long term and short term income protection acquisition costs deferred in those years into the early life of the policy by using lower premium persistency assumptions to determine the scheduled or expected amortization. Although persistency in the future may be lower than historical levels, particularly in certain issue years due to the Companys increased emphasis on retaining profitable business, the acceleration of scheduled 42 Table of Contents amortization may eliminate the need for additional amortization related to the decline in actual persistency relative to scheduled or expected persistency. The persistency of individual income protection and long term care continues to be within expected levels. The Companys renewal programs have generally been successful at retaining group income protection business that is relatively more profitable than business that terminated. It is expected that the additional premium and related profits associated with renewal activity will continue to emerge. The Company intends to maintain a disciplined approach in the re pricing of renewal business, while balancing the need to maximize persistency and retain producer relationships. This disciplined approach may lead to lower persistency or lower profit margins on affected renewal cases than originally planned. Group Income Protection Operating Results As discussed under Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking Statements, certain risks and uncertainties are inherent in the Companys group income protection business. Components of claims experience, including, but not limited to, incidence levels and claims duration, may be worse than expected. Management monitors claims experience in group income protection and responds to changes by periodically adjusting prices, refining underwriting guidelines, changing product features, and strengthening risk management policies and procedures. The Company expects to price new business and re price existing business, at contract renewal dates, in an attempt to mitigate the effect of these and other factors, including interest rates, on new claim liabilities. Given the competitive market conditions for the Companys income protection products, it is uncertain whether pricing actions can entirely mitigate the effect. The Company, similar to all financial institutions, has some exposure in a severe and prolonged economic recession, but many of the Companys products can be re priced, which would allow the Company to reflect in its pricing any fundamental change which might occur in the risk associated with a particular industry or company within an industry. Although approximately 30 percent of the Companys overall block of group income protection business is in the manufacturing and wholesale/retail industry segments, which tend to be economically sensitive, the Company has a well diversified book of insurance exposure, with no disproportionate concentrations of risk in any one industry. The Company has also made changes in recent years through the application of best practices in the claims organization and believes it can respond to increased levels of submitted claims which might result from a further slowing economy. Shown below are key performance indicators for group income protection. 2003 2002 2001 Operating Revenue Growth 9.2 % 7.1 % 4.2 % Benefit Ratio (% of Premium Income) (1) 92.0 % 83.5 % 83.6 % Operating Expense Ratio (% of Premium Income) 22.6 % 21.7 % 21.1 % Operating Expense Ratio (% of Premium + Fee Income) 22.3 % 21.5 % 20.8 % Before tax Operating Income Ratio (% of Premium Income) (1) 4.2 % 12.5 % 13.5 % Persistency U.S. Group Long term Income Protection 87.2 % 86.5 % 84.5 % Persistency U.S. Group Short term Income Protection 84.5 % 81.5 % 82.0 % (1) Before tax reserve strengthening of $894.0 million was excluded from the computation of the benefit ratio and the before tax operating income ratio for 2003. Including this strengthening, the ratios would have been 121.5% and (25.3)%, respectively. Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Group income protection reported operating revenue of $3,794.5 million for 2003 compared to $3,473.5 million for 2002. The operating loss was $767.2 million for 2003 compared to operating income of $350.4 million for 2002. As previously discussed, during the fourth and first quarters of 2003, the Company strengthened its group income protection claim reserves $440.0 million and $454.0 million, respectively. 43 Table of Contents Operating revenue for group income protection improved due to increases in both premium income and net investment income. The $233.5 million growth in premium income during 2003 compared to the prior year is due to new sales growth in 2002 and favorable renewal activity and improved persistency on the existing block of business. Also contributing to premium growth was the 2003 acquisition of the United Kingdom group income protection business of Sun Life, as previously discussed. Premium income in the Companys United Kingdom group long term income protection business increased 41.2 percent, or $108.4 million, in 2003 relative to 2002. A portion of that reported growth also resulted from the favorable foreign currency exchange rate in 2003 relative to 2002. When measured in pounds sterling, the growth rate in premium income in the United Kingdoms group long term income protection was approximately 30.0 percent year over year. Net investment income grew $65.1 million primarily due to the growth in invested assets supporting this line of business. Included in other income are ASO fees of $46.5 million for 2003 and $33.9 million for the prior year. Persistency during 2003 on the overall block of group income protection improved over 2002, with group long term income protection persistency on the Companys U.S. business at 87.2 percent compared to 86.5 percent in 2002. Group short term income protection persistency for 2003 was 84.5 percent versus 81.5 percent for the year 2002. A critical part of the Companys strategy for group income protection involves executing its renewal program and managing persistency in its existing block of business, both of which management expects to have a positive effect on future profitability. The Company has implemented a pricing strategy in the group income protection line wherein prices may increase or decrease by market segment, as appropriate, to respond to current claim experience and other factors and assumptions, although pricing changes typically lag the changes in actual claim experience by several quarters. The benefit ratio for group income protection increased from 83.5 percent in 2002 to 121.5 percent in 2003. Excluding the impact of the 2003 reserve strengthening for group income protection, the benefit ratio was 92.0 percent for 2003. Group income protection experienced a decrease in its commission ratio, offset by an increase in operating expenses. There was no additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to persistency for 2003, but expected amortization, as determined when the costs were initially capitalized, continues to increase year over year due to the continued growth in the deferred policy acquisition cost asset balance related to new sales growth in the block of business and acceleration of expected amortization for costs capitalized in 2002 and subsequent years. For 2002, the additional amortization related to persistency was $12.9 million. The 2003 benefit ratio for group income protection was higher than in 2002, with the increase attributable to long term income protection. Both submitted and paid claim incidence for group long term income protection increased from 2002, although submitted incidence improved in the fourth quarter of 2003 relative to the third quarter. This continues to be driven in part by economic trends, including lower consumer confidence. Claim resolution rates for group long term income protection in 2003 were lower than 2002 and 2001. Also contributing to the increase in the benefit ratio for group long term income protection was the lower claim reserve discount rate used for new claims occurring in 2003, which resulted in the establishment of higher claim reserves in 2003. Payments to settle group long term income protection claims in litigation increased in 2003 compared to 2002, while the number of new lawsuits filed decreased. For short term income protection, the 2003 benefit ratio was higher than in 2002. Paid claim incidence was higher in 2003 than in 2002, but lower during the fourth quarter of 2003 relative to the second and third quarters of 2003. The average weekly indemnity and premium per life continued to increase as expected, but the growth in premium per life was greater than the growth in the average weekly indemnity compared to the growth level relationships experienced in 2002. The average claim duration for closed short term income protection claims was higher than in 2002. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001 Group income protection operating revenue was $3,473.5 million in 2002 compared to $3,243.2 million in 2001. Group income protection reported operating income of $350.4 million for 2002 compared to $354.2 million for 2001. 44 Table of Contents Positive effects on 2002 operating income for group income protection were increases in both premium income and net investment income and an improvement in the persistency rate on the overall block of group income protection business. Included in other income are ASO fees of $33.9 million for 2002 and $25.7 million for 2001. Persistency during 2002 on the overall block of group income protection improved over 2001, with long term income protection persistency for the Companys U.S. business at 86.5 percent compared to 84.5 percent in 2001. Short term income protection persistency for the Companys U.S. business was 81.5 percent in 2002 versus 82.0 percent in 2001. Excluding the effects of cases that transferred from fully insured to ASO, short term income protection persistency was 82.6 percent for 2002. Although the overall block of group income protection business experienced favorable persistency in 2002 compared to 2001, certain issue year business did not persist at the levels expected when the business was issued, resulting in $12.9 million of additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. The additional amortization for 2001 was $26.3 million. The benefit ratio in 2002 was essentially flat compared to 2001. Both submitted and paid claim incidence for group long term income protection increased from 2001, with a portion of the increase attributable to industries affected by the weaker economy. Claim resolution rates for group long term income protection in 2002 were lower than 2001. Payments to settle claims in litigation increased in 2002 compared to 2001, as did the number of new lawsuits. For short term income protection, the 2002 benefit ratio was lower than in 2001. Paid claim incidence was marginally higher than 2001. The average weekly indemnity and premium per life continued to increase as expected, but the growth in premium per life was greater than the growth in the average weekly indemnity compared to the growth level relationships experienced in 2001. The average claim duration for closed short term income protection claims was lower than in 2001. Individual Income Protection Recently Issued Operating Results Shown below are key performance indicators for individual income protection recently issued. 2003 2002 2001 Operating Revenue Growth 15.0 % 8.9 % N/A Benefit Ratio (% of Premium Income) 57.5 % 57.1 % 53.7 % Interest Adjusted Loss Ratio 44.7 % 43.4 % 39.2 % Operating Expense Ratio (% of Premium Income) 27.8 % 28.7 % 30.3 % Before tax Operating Income Ratio (% of Premium Income) 28.2 % 33.8 % 34.9 % Persistency 89.6 % 89.7 % 89.2 % Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Operating revenue was $607.6 million for 2003 compared to $528.5 million in 2002. Premium income increased 14.7 percent over the prior year, and net investment income increased 15.8 percent. Operating income in this block was $140.7 million in 2003 compared to $146.8 million in 2002. The benefit ratio for 2003 increased relative to the prior year, with a ratio of 57.5 percent in 2003 compared to 57.1 percent in 2002. The interest adjusted loss ratio was 44.7 percent and 43.4 percent for 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in the interest adjusted loss ratio is due to higher submitted incidence, offset partially by an increase in the net claim resolution rate. Individual income protection recently issued results benefited from an improvement in both the commission and operating expense ratios relative to 2002. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001 Operating revenue was $528.5 million for 2002 compared to $485.5 million in 2001. Operating income in the individual income protection recently issued line of business was $146.8 million in 2002, an increase of $9.3 million over the prior year. The benefit ratio of 57.1 percent for 2002 increased from the 2001 ratio of 53.7 percent. The 45 Table of Contents interest adjusted loss ratio was 43.4 percent and 39.2 percent for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Submitted incidence rates decreased in 2002 relative to 2001, but paid claim incidence rates for the individual income protection recently issued line of business increased from 2001. The net claim resolution rate for 2002 decreased compared to the 2001 results. Individual income protection recently issued reported an increase in the commission ratio, but benefited from an improved operating expense ratio for 2002 as compared to 2001. Individual Income Protection Closed Block Operating Results The individual income protection closed block generally consists of those policies in force prior to the Companys substantial changes in product offerings, pricing, distribution, and underwriting. These changes generally occurred during the period 1994 through 1998. The Company is reviewing various strategies for this block, including but not limited to reinsurance, separate segment reporting, or other internal and external alternatives. Some of these strategies could result in the write down or partial write down of intangible assets such as goodwill, value of business acquired, or deferred policy acquisition costs. The book value of goodwill, value of business acquired, and deferred policy acquisition costs attributed to the individual income protection closed block was approximately $207.1 million, $367.1 million, and $282.2 million, respectively, at December 31, 2003. Shown below are key performance indicators for individual income protection closed block. 2003 2002 2001 Operating Revenue Growth (2.9 )% 1.7 % N/A Benefit Ratio (% of Premium Income) 149.1 % 139.6 % 129.5 % Interest Adjusted Loss Ratio 82.7 % 78.1 % 73.0 % Operating Expense Ratio (% of Premium Income) 19.5 % 19.2 % 19.7 % Before tax Operating Income Ratio (% of Premium Income) 6.1 % 7.5 % 9.3 % Persistency 94.2 % 94.3 % 93.9 % Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Operating revenue was $1,948.6 million for 2003 compared to $2,006.5 million in 2002. Premium income decreased $77.8 million, or 7.0 percent, relative to the prior year, due to the expected decline in this closed block of business and also due to a reinsurance transaction. As previously discussed, during 2003, the Company reinsured a block of individual income protection policies previously sold through trade associations. The transaction, which closed during the fourth quarter of 2003 with an effective date of April 1, 2003, reduced 2003 premium income in the individual income protection closed block by approximately $16.1 million. The $31.2 million before tax loss on this transaction, of which $29.6 million related to individual income protection closed block, was deferred and is being amortized into income based upon expected future premium income on the policies ceded. Operating income in this block was $62.5 million in 2003 compared to $83.0 million in 2002. The benefit ratio for 2003 increased to 149.1 percent in 2003 relative to 139.6 percent in the prior year. The interest adjusted loss ratio was 82.7 percent and 78.1 percent for 2003 and 2002, respectively. Submitted claim incidence for 2003 decreased relative to 2002, after increasing throughout 2001 and peaking in the first quarter of 2002. The level of paid claim incidence was also lower in 2003 than the incidence rate level experienced in 2002. The net claim resolution rate decreased compared to the level of 2002. Payments to settle claims in litigation increased in 2003 compared to 2002 while the number of new lawsuits filed decreased. Individual income protection closed block results benefited from an improvement in the commission ratio relative to 2002, somewhat offset by a slight increase in the operating expense ratio. 46 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001 Operating revenue was $2,006.5 million for 2002 compared to $1,973.5 million in 2001. Operating income in the individual income protection closed block line of business was $83.0 million in 2002, a decrease of 21.5 percent over the $105.7 million reported in the prior year. The benefit ratio of 139.6 percent for 2002 was slightly higher than the 2001 ratio of 129.5 percent. The interest adjusted loss ratio was 78.1 percent and 73.0 percent for 2002 and 2001, respectively. Submitted and paid claim incidence rates for individual income protection closed block increased in 2002 compared to 2001. The net claim resolution rate for 2002 decreased compared to the 2001 results. The commission ratio increased slightly in 2002 compared to 2001, but the operating expense ratio declined year over year. Long term Care Operating Results Shown below are key performance indicators for long term care. 2003 2002 2001 Operating Revenue Growth 24.2 % 28.2 % 35.3 % Benefit Ratio (% of Premium Income) 84.7 % 82.8 % 78.5 % Operating Expense Ratio (% of Premium Income) 16.6 % 20.3 % 23.8 % Before tax Operating Income Ratio (% of Premium Income) 10.5 % 6.9 % 12.2 % Persistency U.S. Group Long term Care 92.7 % 92.6 % 90.4 % Persistency U.S. Individual Long term Care 96.1 % 96.5 % 96.5 % Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Operating revenue for long term care was $487.9 million, a 24.2 percent increase over 2002. Operating income for long term care was $42.5 million for 2003 as compared to $23.1 million for 2002. The increase resulted primarily from continued growth in premium and net investment income and a decrease in commission and operating expense ratios. Premium income increased $68.8 million for 2003 compared to 2002, primarily due to new sales growth in previous periods. New annualized sales for long term care were $70.9 million for 2003, compared to $87.2 million for the prior year and $75.5 million for 2001. Net investment income continues to increase due to the growth in invested assets supporting this line of business. Persistency in this line of business remains high and stable. Changes in the product offering during 2003 decreased the growth in individual long term care sales relative to historical trends. Submitted and paid claim incidence for individual long term care decreased in 2003 from 2002 levels, while group long term care experienced increased paid claim incidence and stable submitted incidence. The 2003 net claim resolution rate was lower than 2002 for individual long term care, driven by lower claim recoveries. The net claim resolution rate increased for group long term care in 2003 relative to 2002. Results for long term care continue to be volatile due to the relatively small size of this block of business. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001 Operating revenue for long term care was $392.8 million in 2002, a 28.2 percent increase over 2001. Operating income in the long term care line of business decreased to $23.1 million for 2002 compared to $31.8 million for 2001 due to an increase in the benefit ratio. The benefit ratio increase was driven primarily by the increase in active life reserves resulting from higher policy persistency and lower claim resolutions. The 2002 new claim rate, weighted by reserve dollar, exceeded the 2001 rate. The increase in the new claim rate over the prior year was driven by an increase in the average reserve size of new claims. The claim recovery rate decreased from the prior year. The commission and operating expense ratios both improved relative to 2001. 47 Table of Contents Disability Management Services Operating Results Operating revenue from disability management services, which includes the Companys wholly owned subsidiaries GENEX Services, Inc. and Options and Choices, Inc., totaled $173.0 million in 2003, compared to $174.8 million in 2002 and $150.6 million in 2001. Operating income totaled $17.2 million in 2003, compared to $18.9 million in 2002 and $13.7 million in 2001. Results for 2003 relative to 2002 were negatively impacted by lower customer retention levels in 2003. The Company expects that results will improve as new sales increase the customer base. Segment Outlook The Companys primary focus in 2004 for Income Protection will be on enhancing profitability, with an emphasis on the core markets and a balanced mix of business. The Company does not expect significant sales growth in 2004, particularly in the large employer market, as the Company continues with the strategy it implemented in 2003 to shift business mix from the large employer market to the mid and small employer markets. The Company intends to take a disciplined approach to pricing, renewals, and risk selection, with a more conscious effort to balance growth and profitability. Although this strategy may cause a somewhat lower persistency or market share, historically the profitability of business that terminates has generally been less than the profitability of retained business. The Company also expects that its income protection product results will benefit if there is an improvement in overall economic conditions and a higher interest rate environment, although the improvement in results may lag behind the improvements in the economy and interest rate environment. Life and Accident Segment Operating Results (in millions of dollars) Year Ended December 31 2003 % Change 2002 % Change 2001 Operating Revenue Premium Income Group Life $ 1,524.6 6.3 % $ 1,434.4 7.8 % $ 1,330.5 Accidental Death & Dismemberment 198.6 (0.6 ) 199.8 5.3 189.7 Brokerage Voluntary Life and Other 199.2 20.3 165.6 17.8 140.6 Total Premium Income 1,922.4 6.8 1,799.8 8.4 1,660.8 Net Investment Income 191.5 (0.6 ) 192.6 5.4 182.8 Other Income 16.5 14.6 14.4 44.0 10.0 Total 2,130.4 6.2 2,006.8 8.3 1,853.6 Benefits and Expenses Benefits and Change in Reserves for Future Benefits 1,468.1 5.0 1,397.6 3.8 1,346.4 Commissions 177.3 7.5 164.9 15.4 142.9 Deferral of Policy Acquisition Costs (159.3 ) 7.3 (148.4 ) (2.6 ) (152.3 ) Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs 108.0 24.7 86.6 8.4 79.9 Amortization of Value of Business Acquired 1.8 N.M. 0.4 0.4 Operating Expenses 269.7 6.4 253.5 0.6 252.0 Total 1,865.6 6.3 1,754.6 5.1 1,669.3 Operating Income Before Income Tax and Net Realized Investment Loss $ 264.8 5.0 $ 252.2 36.8 $ 184.3 48 Table of Contents The Life and Accident segment includes insurance for life, accidental death and dismemberment, cancer, and critical illness marketed primarily to employers and multi life employee groups by the Companys sales force through independent brokers and consultants. Sales Sales for group life decreased 6.7 percent from 2002 due to a decrease in sales in the Companys U.S. operations, partially offset by an increase in sales in the United Kingdom operations. The decline in U.S. group life sales is primarily attributable to lower large case sales and the continuing impact of the Companys strategic decision, which was fully implemented during 2002, to focus on integrated sales of life and income protection and less on stand alone life sales. The increase in the United Kingdom sales is partially due to the inclusion of additional sales generated as a result of the 2003 Sun Life acquisition. Sales for accidental death and dismemberment declined 35.3 percent in 2003 relative to sales in 2002 as the Companys stand alone large employer life strategy impacts the accidental death and dismemberment rider sales in this product line. Brokerage voluntary life and other sales in 2003 increased 31.0 percent over the comparable prior year. It is expected that brokerage voluntary life and other will continue to report sales growth year over year. Group life 2002 sales, relative to the prior year, decreased 16.6 percent, with the decrease noted in all case size markets. This was partially due to the Companys strategic decision to focus on integrated sales of life and income protection and less on stand alone life. In addition, two large group life cases totaling approximately $41.7 million were sold during 2001. Group Life and Accidental Death and Dismemberment Operating Results Shown below are key performance indicators for group life and accidental death and dismemberment. 2003 2002 2001 Operating Revenue Growth 4.7 % 7.6 % 13.2 % Benefit Ratio (% of Premium Income) 76.8 % 77.6 % 81.0 % Operating Expense Ratio (% of Premium Income) 13.0 % 13.1 % 14.5 % Before tax Operating Income Ratio (% of Premium Income) 13.2 % 13.6 % 10.5 % Persistency U.S. Group Life 83.2 % 83.9 % 84.6 % Persistency U.S. Accidental Death & Dismemberment 84.2 % 82.5 % 83.0 % Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Group life and accidental death and dismemberment reported 2003 operating revenue of $1,875.7 million, a 4.7 percent increase over 2002, due to increases in group life premium income. Operating income was $227.9 million in 2003 compared to $221.9 million in 2002. Premium growth in 2003 relative to 2002 was attributable to favorable renewal results, strong sales results in the United Kingdom operations, and stable persistency. Persistency for group life U.S. operations was less favorable during 2003 than in 2002, with persistency of 83.2 percent compared to 83.9 percent for 2002. For accidental death and dismemberment, persistency was 84.2 percent for 2003 and 82.5 percent for 2002. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs for 2002 includes $9.2 million of additional amortization due to the higher level of terminations for group life products experienced during 2002 than expected at the time the policies were written. There was no additional amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs in 2003. As previously discussed in the operating segment results for group income protection and as also applicable to group life and accidental death and dismemberment, the Company has accelerated the amortization of costs pertaining to certain of its lines of business into the early life of the policy by using lower premium persistency assumptions in determining its scheduled or expected amortization. Although persistency in the future may be lower than historical levels, particularly in certain issue years due to the Companys increased emphasis on retaining profitable business, the acceleration of 49 Table of Contents scheduled amortization may eliminate the need for additional amortization related to the deterioration of actual persistency relative to scheduled or expected persistency. Group life and accidental death and dismemberment reported a $6.0 million increase in operating income for 2003 compared to the prior year. The increase was partially attributable to a decrease in the benefit ratio for both group life and accidental death and dismemberment in 2003 relative to 2002. Group life and accidental death and dismemberment reported a lower commission ratio and a flat operating expense ratio for 2003 relative to the prior year. Submitted and paid claim incidence for group life were both lower in 2003 relative to 2002. The average paid claim size for group life increased from 2002. The incidence rate for group life waiver of premium coverage that results from a policyholders disability decreased in 2003 compared to the prior year. Group life waiver recovery rates for 2003 also decreased from the levels of 2002. Both submitted and paid incidence for accidental death and dismemberment decreased in 2003 relative to the prior year. The Company follows strict underwriting guidelines and implements pricing changes and other case specific remedial plans for under performing business to improve profitability in group life. These actions may contribute to a lower rate of sales growth or higher level of terminations for this business. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001 Group life and accidental death and dismemberment reported operating income of $221.9 million in 2002 compared to $159.7 million in 2001. Group life and accidental death and dismemberment reported an increase in operating revenue for 2002 compared to 2001 due to increases in both premium income and net investment income. Premium growth was attributable to renewal increases, strong sales results in prior periods, and stable persistency. Persistency for the U.S. operations group life was 83.9 percent in 2002 and 84.6 percent for 2001. For accidental death and dismemberment, persistency was 82.5 percent and 83.0 percent for 2002 and 2001, respectively. The benefit ratio and operating expense ratio both declined in 2002 relative to 2001. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs for 2002 includes $9.2 million of additional amortization due to the higher level of terminations for group life and accidental death and dismemberment products experienced during 2002 than expected at the time the policies were written. The unfavorable variance of actual to expected terminations occurred primarily in the group life product line. Although the overall block of group life business experienced favorable persistency compared to the previous year, certain issue year business did not persist at the levels expected when the business was issued. The additional amortization during 2001 for group life and accidental death and dismemberment was $15.2 million. Group life submitted and paid incidence was higher in 2002 than in 2001. The average paid claim size also increased compared to the prior year, and waiver incidence continued to be above recent levels. The claim recovery rate on waiver claims increased, somewhat mitigating the effect of the increase in waiver incidence. The 2002 benefit ratio for accidental death and dismemberment was lower than 2001. Brokerage Voluntary Life and Other Operating Results Shown below are key performance indicators for brokerage voluntary life and other. 2003 2002 2001 Operating Revenue Growth 18.0 % 14.1 % 12.5 % Benefit Ratio (% of Premium Income) 72.9 % 77.9 % 82.1 % Operating Expense Ratio (% of Premium Income) 23.2 % 23.6 % 22.9 % Before tax Operating Income Ratio (% of Premium Income) 18.5 % 18.3 % 17.5 % Persistency Life 84.4 % 83.8 % 83.1 % Persistency Other 77.5 % 78.4 % 79.2 % 50 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Operating revenue in the brokerage voluntary life and other line increased to $254.7 million in 2003 from $215.9 million in 2002 primarily due to an increase in premium income. The increase was attributable to prior year new sales and favorable persistency. Operating income for 2003 was $36.9 million compared to $30.3 million in the prior year. Brokerage voluntary life and other reported an increase in the commission ratio relative to 2002, offset by higher capitalization of policy acquisition expenses. The operating expense ratio was slightly lower in 2003 relative to 2002. The benefit ratio for the life line of business decreased from 2002, primarily due to favorable mortality. The benefit ratio for the other line, primarily cancer and critical illness insurance, decreased relative to 2002. Brokerage voluntary other is a small block of business, and volatility in results may occur. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001 Operating revenue in brokerage voluntary life and other was $215.9 million in 2002 compared to $189.2 million in 2001 due to growth in premium income. Operating income was $30.3 million and $24.6 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The growth in operating income was due to the increase in revenue and a lower benefit ratio. The commission and operating expense ratios were slightly higher in 2002 compared to the prior year, partially eroding the profit margin. Segment Outlook The Company considers the group life and accidental death and dismemberment products as being complimentary to its group income protection products. Sales of stand alone group life, without additional lines of coverage, are not a focus of the Company. Sales of group life and accidental death and dismemberment are expected to be relatively flat with 2003 levels and, like group income protection, will be primarily focused on a more balanced mix of sales between large, medium, and small employer markets. The Company intends to continue its disciplined approach to risk selection and pricing. Since the group life and accidental death and dismemberment products are primarily sold in conjunction with group income protection, the more focused renewal effort in group income protection is expected to reduce persistency somewhat in the group life line as well. The benefit ratio is expected to remain relatively flat with the prior year. The Company will continue to concentrate on sales growth and increased profitability for its voluntary brokerage and other lines and expects that the sales growth pattern of recent years will continue during 2004. 51 Table of Contents Colonial Segment Operating Results (in millions of dollars) Year Ended December 31 2003 % Change 2002 % Change 2001 Operating Revenue Premium Income Income Protection $ 464.9 6.2 % $ 437.8 7.7 % $ 406.4 Life 96.7 20.3 80.4 9.1 73.7 Other 131.9 11.3 118.5 (10.1 ) 131.8 Total Premium Income 693.5 8.9 636.7 4.1 611.9 Net Investment Income 90.0 13.1 79.6 (3.9 ) 82.8 Other Income 2.5 (32.4 ) 3.7 (2.6 ) 3.8 Total 786.0 9.2 720.0 3.1 698.5 Benefits and Expenses Benefits and Change in Reserves for Future Benefits 395.4 10.7 357.2 3.1 346.4 Commissions 164.9 14.6 143.9 6.0 135.7 Deferral of Policy Acquisition Costs (166.1 ) 11.9 (148.4 ) 9.3 (135.8 ) Amortization of Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs 118.3 9.8 107.7 6.7 100.9 Amortization of Value of Business Acquired (0.9 ) (160.0 ) 1.5 (21.1 ) 1.9 Operating Expenses 127.7 5.9 120.6 8.3 111.4 Total 639.3 9.8 582.5 3.9 560.5 Operating Income Before Income Tax and Net RealizedInvestment Loss $ 146.7 6.7 $ 137.5 (0.4 ) $ 138.0 The Colonial segment includes insurance for income protection, accident and sickness, life, cancer, and critical illness issued by the Companys subsidiary Colonial Life & Accident Insurance Company and marketed primarily to employees through an agency field sales force. Sales Sales for the Colonial segment in 2003 increased 10.9 percent compared to sales in 2002. The sales increase in 2003 relative to 2002 is primarily attributable to 13.1 percent growth in the life product line and 9.1 percent in income protection. The accident line included in the income protection block had a 2003 sales increase of 28.3 percent relative to 2002. Sales growth was strong in 2002 as well, with an increase of 5.8 percent over 2001. The Company expects continued strong sales results in this segment. 52 Table of Contents Operating Results Shown below are key performance indicators for the Colonial segment. 2003 2002 2001 Operating Revenue Growth 9.2 % 3.1 % 7.1 % Benefit Ratio (% of Premium Income) 57.0 % 56.1 % 56.6 % Operating Expense Ratio (% of Premium Income) 18.4 % 18.9 % 18.2 % Before tax Operating Income Ratio (% of Premium Income) 21.2 % 21.6 % 22.6 % Persistency Income Protection and Accident & Sickness (1) 74.1 % 76.6 % 76.3 % Persistency Life 88.2 % 86.7 % 86.4 % Persistency Cancer 84.4 % 82.1 % 82.1 % (1) During 2003, the Company discontinued the sale of group long term income protection products, and existing contracts were either renewed with another insurance provider or terminated as contractually provided. This exit strategy was complete as of the end of 2003, resulting in a decline in the 2003 persistency, relative to historical periods, for income protection and accident and sickness. Year Ended December 31, 2003 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2002 Operating revenue in the Colonial segment increased to $786.0 million in 2003 from $720.0 million in 2002 due to an increase in premium income in all product lines and an increase in net investment income. The premium income increase was attributable to prior year new sales and overall favorable persistency. Operating income for 2003 was $146.7 million compared to $137.5 million in 2002. The overall 2003 benefit ratio for this segment was slightly higher than 2002. The life and income protection product lines each reported an increase in the benefit ratio compared to the prior year. The individual short term income protection line reported a decrease in claim incidence for 2003 compared with the prior year while the average claim duration for closed claims was above the prior year. The average indemnity for individual short term income protection was higher than 2002. For accident and sickness, the claim incidence rate increased slightly in 2003 relative to 2002. In the life product line, average paid claims decreased in 2003 compared to last year. The 2003 incidence rate for the cancer products and the critical illness products decreased from the prior year. The segment reported an increase in the commission ratio but a decline in the operating expense ratio for 2003 relative to 2002. Year Ended December 31, 2002 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2001 Operating revenue in the Colonial segment increased to $720.0 million in 2002 from $698.5 million in 2001 due to the increase in premium income attributable to sales growth and favorable persistency. For 2002, the benefit ratio for this segment decreased relative to 2001. The individual short term income protection product reported an increase in the average indemnity relative to 2001 but a decline in the average claim duration for closed claims and a flat incidence rate relative to the prior year. Life paid claims, as well as the average claim size, increased in 2002 relative to 2001. The cancer block results benefited from the reinsurance transaction entered into during the fourth quarter of 2001, as previously discussed. The segment reported increases in the commission and operating expense ratios for 2002 relative to 2001. As previously discussed, during 2001 the Company reinsured on a 100 percent indemnity coinsurance basis certain cancer policies written in the Colonial segment. The transaction closed during the fourth quarter with an effective date of November 1, 2001. The Company ceded approximately $113.6 million of reserves to the reinsurer. The $12.3 million before tax gain on this transaction was deferred and is being amortized into income based upon expected future premium income on the policies ceded. The Company will continue to market its other cancer products. 53 Table of Contents Segment Outlook The Companys key areas of focus in 2004 for Colonial are sales growth, revenue growth and increased profitability. Continuation of efforts in providing quality service will also be a focus for the Company. While the Colonial segment is already profitable and efficiently operated, past sales results have not grown at the same rate as the Company believes it can competitively achieve. In 2004, the emphasis will be on achieving consistent, profitable, sales growth by focusing on the recruitment and productivity of agents, improved business tools, enhanced marketing research and development, balanced sales compensation, and focused recognition and incentive programs. Growth in revenue and profitability will be driven by increasing premium income through sales growth and stable persistency while maintaining a focus on high quality business and the management of expenses. Service is used as a differentiator for the Colonial segment in the marketplace. The two key drivers for effective service delivery are trained service professionals and effective use of technology. These key drivers will be emphasized by seeking to increase innovation, productivity, and performance through leadership development and technological advances. Other Segment Operating Results (in millions of dollars) Year Ended December 31 2003 % Change 2002 % Change 2001 Operating Revenue Premium Income $ 34.3 (8.8 )% $ 37.6 (66.4 )% $ 111.8 Net Investment Income 140.1 (9.1 ) 154.2 (15.6 ) 182.7 Other Income 31.4 (20.5 ) 39.5 (22.5 ) 51.0 Total 205.8 (11.0 ) 231.3 (33.1 ) 345.5 Benefits and Expenses Benefits and Change in Reserves for Future Benefits 157.1 (2.5 ) 161.1 (23.8 ) 211.4 Other Expenses 23.8 (4.0 ) 24.8 (69.1 ) 80.3 Total 180.9 (2.7 ) 185.9 (36.3 ) 291.7 Operating Income Before Income Tax and Net Realized Investment Loss $ 24.9 (45.2 ) $ 45.4 (15.6 ) $ 53.8 The Other operating segment includes results from products no longer actively marketed (with the exception of certain individual income products), including individual life and corporate owned life insurance, reinsurance pools and management operations, group pension, health insurance, and individual annuities. It is expected that operating revenue and income in this segment will decline over time as these business lines wind down. Management expects to reinvest the capital supporting these lines of business in the future growth of the Income Protection, Life and Accident, and Colonial segments. The closed lines of business have been segregated for reporting and monitoring purposes. Reinsurance Pools and Management The Companys reinsurance operations include the reinsurance management operations of Duncanson & Holt, Inc. (D&H) and the risk assumption, which includes reinsurance pool participation; direct reinsurance which includes accident and health (A&H), long term care (LTC), and long term disability coverages; and Lloyds of London (Lloyds) syndicate participations. During the years 1999 through 2001, the Company exited its reinsurance pools and management operations through a combination of a sale, reinsurance, and or placement of certain components in run off. 54 Table of Contents The reinsurance pools and management operations reported premium income of $6.6 million in 2003 compared to $16.7 million and $61.3 million in 2002 and 2001. During 2003 and 2002, the reinsurance pools and management operations reported operating losses of $7.1 million and $3.2 million, respectively, compared to operating income of $0.1 million in 2001. Individual Life and Corporate Owned Life During 2000 the Company reinsured substantially all of the individual life and corporate owned life insurance blocks of business. The Company ceded approximately $3.3 billion of reserves to the reinsurer. The $388.2 million before tax gain on these transactions was deferred and is being amortized into income based upon expected future premium income on the traditional insurance policies ceded and estimated future gross profits on the interest sensitive insurance policies ceded. The unamortized balance of the deferred gain was $283.1 million at December 31, 2003 and $313.8 million at the end of 2002. Total operating revenue for individual life and corporate owned life insurance was $39.9 million, $42.2 million, and $42.9 million in 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Operating income for the same periods was $33.5 million, $41.6 million, and $39.4 million. Other Group pension, health insurance, individual annuities, and other closed lines of business had operating revenue of $150.4 million, $159.1 million, and $200.1 million in 2003, 2002, and 2001 and operating income (loss) of $(1.5) million, $7.0 million, and $14.3 million. Decreases in operating revenue and income are expected to continue as these lines of business wind down. Included in these amounts are the Companys operating results for its operation in Argentina, which produced operating revenue of $18.1 million, $18.4 million, and $47.1 million in 2003, 2002, and 2001, and operating income loss of $(13.4) million, $0.1 million, and $1.1 million in each of those three years. As previously discussed, during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recognized an impairment loss related to this operation, comprised of a foreign exchange loss of $6.4 million and the write down of a $7.1 million receivable considered uncollectible. These charges decreased operating revenue and operating earnings in the Other segment by $6.4 million and $13.5 million, respectively. In 2001, the Company wrote off the remaining goodwill balance of $5.4 million related to its operation in Argentina. The 2001 goodwill write off was included in the Corporate segment operating results. Corporate Segment Operating Results The Corporate segment includes investment income on corporate assets not specifically allocated to a line of business, corporate interest expense, amortization of goodwill (prior to 2002), and certain corporate expenses not allocated to a line of business. Operating revenue in the Corporate segment was $31.6 million in 2003, compared to $34.0 million in 2002 and $45.6 million in 2001. The Corporate segment reported operating losses of $193.5 million in 2003, $155.0 million in 2002, and $165.2 million in 2001. Interest and debt expense increased from $169.6 million in 2001 and $162.4 million in 2002 to $187.2 million in 2003 due to the impact of the offering in May 2003 and the long term debt offerings in 2002, as discussed under Liquidity and Capital Resources. Included in operating expenses for 2003 is approximately $15.0 million in severance and pension benefit payouts related to the change of the Companys president and chief executive officer. As previously discussed, during the fourth quarter of 2003, the Company recognized an impairment loss of $1.2 million before tax on its Japanese operation. Operating results for 2001 were negatively impacted relative to 2003 and 2002 due to goodwill amortization of $21.2 million, which included a $5.4 million write down of goodwill related to the Companys Argentinean operation. See previous discussion under Other Segment Operating Results. 55 Table of Contents Discontinued Operations During 2003, the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Canadian branch to RBC Insurance, the insurance operation of Royal Bank of Canada. The Canadian branch is accounted for as an asset held for sale at December 31, 2003 and also meets the accounting criteria for being reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2004. In conjunction with the classification of the Canadian branch as an asset held for sale, the Company tested the goodwill related to the Canadian branch for impairment and determined that the balance of $190.9 million was impaired, based on fair value measurements which used the quoted market value of the Canadian branch. The Company also recognized a loss of $9.3 million before tax and $6.0 million after tax to write down the value of bonds in the Canadian branch investment portfolio to market value. These two charges are included in the $161.7 million loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, reported in the consolidated statements of operations. In 2002 and 2001, income from discontinued operations was $11.4 million and $3.5 million, net of tax. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein in Item 8 for further discussion of the Companys discontinued operations. Investments Overview Investment activities are an integral part of the Companys business, and profitability is significantly affected by investment results. Invested assets are segmented into portfolios that support the various product lines. Generally, the investment strategy for the portfolios is to match the effective asset cash flows and durations with related expected liability cash flows and durations to consistently meet the liability funding requirements of the Companys business. The Company seeks to maximize investment income and total return and to assume credit risk in a prudent and selective manner, subject to constraints of quality, liquidity, diversification, and regulatory considerations. The Companys overall investment philosophy is to invest in a portfolio of high quality assets that provide investment returns consistent with that assumed in the pricing of its insurance products. Assets are invested predominately in fixed maturity securities, and the portfolio is matched with liabilities so as to eliminate as much as possible the Companys exposure to changes in the overall level of interest rates. The Company invests for the long term, with the weighted average duration of its liability portfolio approximately 9.65 years at December 31, 2003. The weighted average duration of the Companys investment portfolio was 8.96 years at December 31, 2003, and the weighted average credit rating was A. The Company is able to hold to this investment philosophy throughout a credit cycle because of its capital position, the fixed nature of its liabilities, and the matching of those liabilities with assets and also because of the experience gained through many years of a consistent investment philosophy. It is the Companys intent, and has been its practice, to hold investments to maturity to meet liability payments. The Companys investment philosophy is also designed to take advantage of the expertise it has developed over the years in the below investment grade fixed maturity market. This allows the Company to attain higher yield and increase diversification of assets while at the same time not substantially increasing its asset risk profile. As noted in the investment policy discussion below, the Companys investments in this asset category are subject to limits and closely monitored. 56 Table of Contents Below is a summary of the Companys formal investment policy, including the overall quality and diversification objectives. The majority of investments are in high quality publicly traded securities to ensure the desired liquidity and preserve the capital value of the Companys portfolios. The long term nature of the Companys insurance liabilities also allows it to invest in less liquid investments to obtain superior returns. A maximum of 10 percent of the total investment portfolio may be invested in below investment grade investments, two percent in equity type instruments, and up to 35 percent in private placements. The remaining assets can be held in publicly traded investment grade corporate securities, mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, municipal securities, and commercial mortgages. The Company does not currently intend to invest in additional real estate. The Company intends to manage the risk of losses due to changes in interest rates by matching asset duration with liabilities to within a range of +/ 3 years. The weighted average credit quality rating of the portfolio should be BBB or higher. The maximum investment per issuer group is limited based on internal limits established by the Companys board of directors and is more restrictive than the 5 percent limit generally allowed by the state insurance departments which regulate the type of investments the Companys insurance subsidiaries are allowed to own. These internal limits are as follows: Rating InternalLimit ($ in millions) AAA/A $ 150 BBB 100 BBB 75 BB/BBB 60 BB 50 B/BB 40 B 20 The portfolio is to be diversified across industry classification and geographic lines. Derivative instruments may be used to hedge interest rate risk and match liability duration and cash flows consistent with the plan approved by the board of directors. Asset mix guidelines and limits are established by the Company and approved by the board of directors. The allocation of assets and the selection and timing of the acquisition and disposition of investments are subject to ratification by the investment subcommittee of the board of directors on a weekly basis. These actions are also reviewed and approved by the board of directors on a quarterly basis. These investment policies and guidelines are reviewed and appropriately adjusted by the board of directors annually, or more frequently if deemed necessary. To allow the Company flexibility during the current challenging environment, the board of directors at its September 2002 meeting modified the above investment guidelines to establish an individual credit over exposure limit at 5 percent of invested assets and a below investment grade over exposure limit of 5 percent of invested assets. As previously discussed, during 2003 the Company entered into an agreement to sell its Canadian branch. The transaction is expected to close during the first half of 2004. The Canadian branch meets the accounting criteria for being reported as a discontinued operation in the consolidated financial statements and as such, its assets and liabilities are reported separately in the Companys consolidated statements of financial condition. The Company will be retaining a portion of the Canadian branch fixed maturity bond portfolio according to the terms of the transaction. The specific bonds to be transferred have not yet been identified by the buyer, although the aggregate fair value of bonds to be transferred is approximately $1.1 billion, or 3.5 percent of the fair value of the Companys total fixed maturity bond portfolio as of December 31, 2003. Because the specific investments to be transferred have not been identified, the disclosures on the following pages will in some instances necessarily include the total Canadian investment portfolio, including those which will be transferred to the buyer when the transaction closes, with an appropriate disclosure noting that the information includes fixed maturity securities reported separately as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of financial condition. 57 Table of Contents Investment Results Net investment income increased $129.5 million in 2003, or 6.4 percent, over the previous year. For 2002, net investment income increased $77.8 million, or 4.0 percent, relative to 2001. The overall yield in the portfolio, including fixed maturity securities reported as discontinued operations, was 7.15 percent as of December 31, 2003, compared to 7.76 percent and 8.02 percent at the end of 2002 and 2001, respectively. In the current low interest rate market, the Company expects that the portfolio yield will continue to gradually decline, until the market rates increase above the level of the overall yield, due to lower yields on new purchases. As of December 31, 2003, the Companys exposure to below investment grade fixed maturity securities was approximately 7.8 percent of the carrying value of invested assets excluding ceded policy loans and fixed maturity securities reported as discontinued operations, compared to 10.4 percent at the end of 2002. This asset class had increased during 2002 primarily from downgrades of existing securities that were previously investment grade rather than the purchase of additional below investment grade securities. During the first quarter of 2003, the Company initiated a program to reduce its below investment grade fixed maturity securities holdings to comply with its investment policy regarding diversification and to better position the investment portfolio in todays environment and reduce exposure to potential credit related losses. The program was substantially complete at the end of the first quarter of 2003, with sales of approximately $760.9 million in market value and $758.6 million in book value. Gross gains of $23.1 million and gross losses of $20.8 million were recognized on the sale of these securities during the first quarter of 2003. The Company reported before tax net realized investment losses during the last three years as shown in the following chart, which excludes an estimate of realized investment gains and losses related to the fixed maturity securities reported as discontinued operations in each applicable time period. Write downs were recognized as a result of managements determination that the value of certain fixed maturity and equity securities had other than temporarily declined during the applicable reporting period, as well as the result of further declines in the values of fixed maturity and equity securities that had initially been written down in a prior period. The value of the securities was determined to have other than temporarily declined or to have further declined from the initial impairment based on the factors discussed herein in Critical Accounting Policies. The Company anticipates additional investment losses may occur during 2004. The Company adopted DIG Issue B36, as previously discussed, effective October 1, 2003, and reported the fourth quarter changes in fair values of the embedded derivatives in realized investment gains and losses, as shown in the following chart. (in millions of dollars) For the Year Ended December 31 2003 2002 2001 Gross Realized Investment Gain Sales $ 166.9 $ 201.3 $ 149.5 Increase in Fair Value of DIG Issue B36 Derivatives 25.1 Total 192.0 201.3 149.5 Gross Realized Investment Loss Write downs 187.3 442.5 212.3 Sales 154.2 67.9 37.2 Decrease in Fair Value of DIG Issue B36 Derivatives 24.3 Total 365.8 510.4 249.5 Net Realized Investment Loss $ (173.8 ) $ (309.1 ) $ (100.0 ) 58 Table of Contents Write downs During 2003 Approximately 46 percent of the 2003 write downs in continuing operations occurred in the energy and utilities industries. The following list includes write downs representing five percent or greater of the total 2003 write downs, the circumstances that contributed to the write downs, the length of time the security had been in a continual loss position, whether it was investment grade or below investment grade at the time of initial purchase and at the time of the write down, and how the circumstances of the write down might cause impairments in other material investments held by the Company. $26.4 million loss during the first quarter of 2003 on securities issued by a related entity of a U.S. based energy company. The write down represented 14.1 percent of the total write downs for 2003. The securities were issued by a utility company that services an industrial site in England and whose 98 percent parent filed for insolvency in December 2001. This issuer was excluded from the parents insolvency filing due to the financial separation from the parent and was operating as a going concern during 2002. Despite the financial separation, the issuers securities were downgraded to below investment grade in the fourth quarter of 2001. The Company initially recognized an impairment loss on these securities at the time of the parents insolvency filing in 2001. These bonds were secured by a second lien on the real estate holdings of the company. The Company closely monitored this security and the value of the collateral during 2002. Following extensive negotiations during 2002 and the first quarter of 2003 with the companys two other lenders, financial advisors, and counsel, it was determined that the investment was further impaired. Prior to its write down in 2003, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than 270 days but less than one year. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. $18.1 million loss during the first quarter of 2003 on securities issued by a Norwegian based energy services company engaged in offshore seismic surveying and floating production. The write down represented 9.7 percent of the total write downs for 2003. The write down was taken after further analysis of available information indicated the companys lack of near term liquidity and that overall industry conditions in the energy sector had negatively affected the operations more than previous analysis had indicated. The securities were investment grade at the time of purchase but were downgraded to below investment grade in the third quarter of 2002. At the time of the write down, these securities had been continuously in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than three years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. $14.4 million loss during the first quarter of 2003, or 7.7 percent of the total write downs for 2003, on securities issued by a United Kingdom electrical generation subsidiary of a U.S. based company. Although this industrys operating environment in the U.K. weakened over the past few years due to competitive pricing pressures, the company had benefited from a favorable, long term power sales agreement with a large, investment grade U.K. power customer. Depressed electricity prices in the merchant power market and operating problems at the company, as well as financial difficulties experienced by the companys U.K. power customer, contributed to a weakened financial profile. In October 2002, the financial problems associated with the major U.K. customer resulted in the termination of the favorable power contract. The company made its December 2002 interest payments as scheduled. However, due to discussions that were initiated between the issuer and senior lenders in the first quarter of 2003 and the continued weakness in the U.K. power market, it was determined that this investment was other than temporarily impaired. The securities were investment grade at the time of purchase but were downgraded to below investment grade in the fourth quarter of 2001. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than one year but less than two years. The Company also owns securities in the previously mentioned U.K. power customer of this issuer and previously recorded an impairment loss on those securities in the fourth quarter of 2002. $11.3 million loss during the second quarter of 2003 on securities issued by a regulated natural gas pipeline company located in Argentina. The write down represented 6.0 percent of the total write downs for 2003. The write down was taken following continued delays by the Argentine government in implementing tariff reform and the companys default on its interest payment due during the second quarter. These securities 59 Table of Contents were investment grade at the time of purchase but were downgraded to below investment grade in the second quarter of 2001. At the time of the write down, these securities had been continuously in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than two years but less than three years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. $11.1 million loss during the fourth quarter of 2003 on securities issued by a leading producer of performance products for the automotive industry and nylon fibers for the carpet industry. The write down represented 5.9 percent of the total write downs for 2003. The securities were investment grade at the time of purchase but were downgraded to below investment grade in the first quarter of 2002. The issuer was current on its interest payments as of September 30, 2003, but filed for bankruptcy in December 2003, despite having implemented several successful measures which improved liquidity and reduced potential legal liabilities. At the time of the write down, these securities had been continuously in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than 1 year but less than two years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. $11.0 million loss during the third quarter of 2003 on securities issued by a travel services company located in the United Kingdom. The write down represented 5.9 percent of the total write downs for 2003. The write down was taken following discussions between the issuer and its creditors regarding difficulties in the issuers businesses due to geopolitical unrest and persistent weakness in demand for leisure travel and requests for certain waivers and consents of debt covenants. These securities were investment grade at the time of purchase but were downgraded to below investment grade in the first quarter of 2003. At the time of the write down, these securities had been continuously in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than 270 days but less than one year. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. Write downs During 2002 Approximately 48 percent of the 2002 write downs in continuing operations occurred in the communications sector. The following list includes write downs representing five percent or greater of the total 2002 write downs, the circumstances that contributed to the write downs, the length of time the security had been in a continual loss position, whether it was investment grade or below investment grade at the time of initial purchase and at the time of the write down, and how the circumstances of the write down might cause impairments in other material investments held by the Company. $44.0 million loss during the second quarter of 2002 on securities issued by a Canadian telecommunications company engaged in transporting voice and data over its global fiber optic network. The write down represented 9.9 percent of the total write downs for 2002. This company had an investment grade rating immediately prior to the time its parent company unexpectedly withdrew its support for the subsidiary in April 2002. The investment was subsequently downgraded to below investment grade in the second quarter of 2002. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than two years but less than three years. The Company owns fixed maturity securities issued by another regulated subsidiary under common ownership, but this investment has not been negatively impacted, is not considered impaired, and was in an unrealized gain position at December 31, 2003. $27.8 million loss during the second quarter of 2002 on securities issued by a U.S. based global telecommunications company providing global voice and data services. The write down represented 6.3 percent of the total write downs for 2002. It was discovered in June 2002 that the company had misclassified certain expenses, materially changing the reported financial condition and profitability of the business. The company had an investment grade rating prior to its downgrade to below investment grade in the second quarter of 2002. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than one year but less than two years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. 60 Table of Contents $25.1 million loss during the fourth quarter of 2002 on securities issued by a subsidiary of a U.S. based company engaged in the electricity business in the United Kingdom. The write down represented 5.7 percent of the total write downs for 2002. As this industrys operating environment in the United Kingdom weakened over the past few years due to competitive pricing pressures, the company remained encumbered with a number of above market price power purchase agreements resulting in significant operating losses. The parent company had previously provided equity support and had committed an additional $700.0 million to this subsidiary to be used primarily to renegotiate these contracts. The company had an investment grade rating prior to the time the parent company unexpectedly withdrew its promised support in October 2002, which resulted in a downgrade to below investment grade. The company defaulted on its October interest payments, and the parent company was subsequently placed in administration in the United Kingdom. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than three years. The Company holds securities in a related subsidiary and has also recognized an other than temporary impairment loss on that related subsidiary. $23.2 million loss during the first quarter of 2002 on securities issued by the holding company of a large national wholesale communications company. The write down represented 5.2 percent of the total write downs for 2002. In the third quarter of 2001 the company reported sales of $298 million, a 42 percent increase over the comparable prior year period, and liquidity of $1.4 billion in cash equivalents. It was expected that the company would use the proceeds from the sale of non core assets to further supplement liquidity. In January 2002, the companys banks agreed to extend the negotiating period for an amendment to the credit agreement until the end of February 2002. During the first quarter of 2002, the company reported fourth quarter 2001 results, including an 11 percent increase in revenue to $330.3 million. The company had cash equivalents in excess of $1.0 billion, an indication that the company had sufficient liquidity to fund its business plan through 2003. However, late in the first quarter of 2002, the companys banks unexpectedly refused to allow the company to draw on its credit lines. The company reported that it would seek bankruptcy protection. Both Moodys and Standard & Poors downgraded the security during the first quarter of 2002. The investment was originally purchased as part of the Companys below investment grade strategy. At the time of the write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than one year but less than two years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. Write downs During 2001 Approximately 50 percent of the 2001 write downs in continuing operations occurred in the communications sector. The following list includes write downs representing five percent or greater of the total 2001 write downs, the circumstances that contributed to the write downs, and how those circumstances might cause impairments in other material investments held by the Company. $29.0 million loss during the fourth quarter of 2001 on securities issued by a global integrated telecommunications company, after the company announced in January 2002 that it would be seeking bankruptcy protection. The write down represented 13.7 percent of the total write downs for 2001. The company had approximately $2 billion of cash as of September 30, 2001, the most recent reporting date prior to the write down. The investment was originally purchased as part of the Companys below investment grade strategy. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than one year but less than two years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. $23.6 million loss during the fourth quarter of 2001 on securities issued by a leading U.S. based energy company. The write down represented 11.1 percent of the total write downs for 2001. This company had an investment grade rating prior to allegations of fraud and accounting irregularities in November 2001. The company subsequently filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in December 2001. The investment was downgraded to a below investment grade status in the fourth quarter of 2001. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than 180 days but less than 270 days. At the time of the write down, the Company owned senior notes of a related entity. This security was subsequently sold during 2002. The Company also owns securities of another related entity, a utility 61 Table of Contents company that services an industrial site in England and whose 98 percent parent filed for insolvency in December 2001. The subsidiary was excluded from this insolvency filing due to the financial separation from the parent and was operating as a going concern during 2001. See previous discussion under Write downs During 2003 pertaining to the Companys $26.4 million write down of these securities during the first quarter of 2003. $18.6 million loss during the second quarter of 2001 on securities issued by a global integrated web hosting, data, and telecommunications company, after the company unexpectedly declined to make an interest payment on another senior note in May 2001 even though the company had sufficient available cash. The write down represented 8.8 percent of the total write downs for 2001. The investment was originally purchased as part of the Companys below investment grade strategy. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than two years but less than three years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. $15.7 million loss during the fourth quarter of 2001 on a provider of local and long distance telephone service and internet service after the company reported in November 2001 that it might seek to restructure its debt. The write down represented 7.4 percent of the total write downs for 2001. This investment was originally purchased as part of the Companys below investment grade strategy. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than three years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. $15.0 million loss during the third quarter of 2001 on securities issued by an internet data and web hosting company, after it was deemed probable in September 2001 that the company might seek to restructure. The write down represented 7.1 percent of the total write downs for 2001. The investment was originally purchased as part of the Companys below investment grade strategy. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period greater than one year but less than two years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. $14.8 million loss during the fourth quarter of 2001 on securities issued by a large manufacturer of wheels for automobiles, after the company announced in December 2001 that it would seek bankruptcy protection. The write down represented 7.0 percent of the total write downs for 2001. The company also announced in September 2001 that it would restate results for the previous year and first quarter of the current year because of accounting errors and issued restated results in the fourth quarter of 2001. The investment was originally purchased as part of the Companys below investment grade strategy. Prior to its write down, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than two years but less than three years. The circumstances of this impaired investment have no impact on other investments. Realized Investment Losses During 2003 Sale of Fixed Maturity Securities During the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company realized a loss of $143.6 million on the sale of fixed maturity securities in its continuing operations. The securities sold had a book value of $821.0 million and a fair value of $677.4 million at the time of sale and represented 94 different issuers, of which approximately 59 percent were a part of the Companys previously discussed program to reduce its below investment grade fixed maturity securities holdings. Realized investment losses representing five percent or more of the total loss recognized during 2003 are as follows: $28.1 million loss during the third and fourth quarters of 2003 on securities issued by a leading producer of performance products for the automotive industry and nylon fibers for the carpet industry, representing 19.6 percent of the realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2003. The companys operations had been severely impacted by the increased price of raw materials and energy as well as a weakening demand for its products. In addition, the company was involved in an environmental pollution lawsuit with a potentially large negative impact. These securities had an investment grade rating until downgraded to below investment grade in the first quarter of 2002. At the time of sale, the investment had been continuously in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than three years. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. 62 Table of Contents $25.2 million loss during the fourth quarter of 2003 on the sale of securities guaranteed by an Italian dairy company, representing 17.5 percent of the realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2003. The loss was incurred after it was revealed that the guarantor had engaged in massive fraud, ultimately leading to the companys bankruptcy. The guarantor had been rated investment grade until December 2003. At the time of the sale, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than 90 days. The Company also owns $22.5 million of fixed maturity securities of a wholly owned Canadian subsidiary of the parent company. Although the financial and operating profiles of the subsidiary are separate from the parent and no other than temporary impairment was deemed to exist, in conjunction with the classification of the Canadian branch as an asset held for sale, the Company recognized a loss of $4.0 million to write down the value of these securities, which are held in the Canadian branch investment portfolio, to market value. This loss is included in the loss from discontinued operations. $15.2 million loss during the first three quarters of 2003 on the sale of debt issued by a major domestic airline, representing 10.6 percent of the realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2003. The Company has systematically sold the securities during the first nine months of 2003 to substantially reduce its exposure to the airline. These securities had an investment grade rating until the various issues were downgraded to below investment grade in the third quarter of 2001 and the first quarter of 2002. At the time of the initial sale, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than one year but less than two years. The Company also took an other than temporary impairment charge of $0.3 million on the value of certain private, secured debt obligations of this issuer as part of a consensual restructuring proposal. $11.1 million loss during the second and fourth quarters of 2003 on the sale of unsecured debt and private, secured debt obligations issued by a major domestic airline, representing 7.7 percent of the realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2003. The Company sold the securities to reduce its exposure to the airline. These securities had an investment grade rating until downgraded in the third quarter of 2001. At the time of sale, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than one year but less than two years. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. $9.2 million loss during the second and fourth quarters of 2003 on the sale of securities issued by a provider of phone, cable, and internet services, representing 6.4 percent of the realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2003. This companys operations were severely impacted by the decline in the telecommunications market and thus, the decision was made to reduce the exposure to this company. These securities were originally purchased as part of the Companys below investment grade strategy. At the time of sale, this security had been continuously in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than three years. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. Realized Investment Losses During 2002 Sale of Fixed Maturity Securities During the year ended December 31, 2002, the Company realized a loss of $62.1 million on the sale of fixed maturity securities in its continuing operations. These securities had a book value of $236.4 million and a fair value of $174.3 million at the time of sale and represented 42 different issuers. Realized investment losses representing five percent or more of the total loss recognized during 2002 are as follows: The Company realized $34.0 million in losses on the sale of securities issued by a U.S. based global telecommunications company providing global voice and data services, representing 54.8 percent of the total realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2002. This company had misclassified certain expenses, materially changing the reported financial condition and profitability of the business. The price of this issuers securities dropped significantly in the second quarter of 2002 as the information became public. This company is under multiple investigations, and several senior officers of the issuer have been accused of committing major accounting fraud. These circumstances were significant enough for the Company to change its intent to hold these securities to maturity or recovery. The investment was downgraded to below investment grade in the second quarter of 2002, and, at the time of sale, had been in 63 Table of Contents an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than 90 days but less than 180 days. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. The Company realized $5.9 million in losses on the sale of securities issued by an energy services company engaged in offshore seismic surveying and floating energy production, representing 9.5 percent of the total realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2002. Industry conditions in the energy sector, which is cyclical and driven by the supply and demand for oil and gas, had impacted profit margins, and the company lacked liquidity in the near term. The investment was downgraded to below investment grade status in the second quarter of 2002, causing the investment holdings of this issuer to exceed the Companys individual issuer group limits established by the Companys board of directors. As a result, the Company sold the securities in order to lower its overall holding of securities issued by this company. At the time of sale, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of more than three years. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. The Company realized $3.9 million in losses on the sale of a below investment grade structured security backed by a pool of high yield bonds, representing 6.3 percent of the total realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2002. The continued high level of defaults in the high yield market and in this pool in particular continued to impact the credit quality of this investment. A review of the investment led to the conclusion that, while a decline in the level of defaults in the general market was expected, no improvement in the prospects for this structured security was expected. This conclusion resulted from the deterioration of the underlying pool of high yield bonds and the deteriorating performance record of the pools manager. The investment was downgraded to below investment grade status in the third quarter of 2001 and, at the time of sale, had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than 270 days but less than 360 days. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. Realized Investment Losses During 2001 Sale of Fixed Maturity Securities During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company realized a loss of $32.0 million on the sale of fixed maturity securities in its continuing operations. These securities had a book value of $525.0 million and a fair value of $493.0 million at the time of sale and represented 62 different issuers. Realized investment losses representing five percent or more of the total loss recognized during 2001 are as follows: The Company realized $9.8 million in losses on the sale of senior unsecured notes of the finance subsidiary of a large global food and beverage packaging manufacturer, representing 30.6 percent of the total realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2001. This company had a large asbestos liability, limited liquidity, and a large amount of maturing debt in the near term relative to expected cash flows. The Company sold these bonds in anticipation of further credit deterioration, price depreciation, rating downgrades, and a possible bankruptcy. At the time of sale, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than one year but less than two years. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. The Company realized $3.0 million in losses on the sale of senior notes issued by a U.S. department store chain, representing 9.4 percent of the total realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2001. The Company sold these bonds in anticipation of further credit deterioration, price depreciation, and rating downgrades. At the time of sale, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than two years but less than three years. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. The Company realized $2.9 million in losses on the sale of securities issued by a U.S. based global long distance company, representing 9.1 percent of the total realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2001. The issuers long distance and data business was under severe pricing pressure, and the issuers liquidity was constrained. These circumstances were significant enough for the Company to reduce its exposure to this issuer. At the time of sale, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than one year but less than two years. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. 64 Table of Contents The Company realized $2.6 million in losses on the sale of unsecured notes issued by the holding company of a diversified group of television broadcasting, newspaper publishing, cable news, and interactive media operations, representing 8.1 percent of the total realized investment loss on sales of fixed maturity securities in 2001. The Company sold these bonds in anticipation of further credit deterioration, price depreciation, and rating downgrades due to the decrease in advertising revenues and the high leverage ratios of the issuer. At the time of sale, the investment had been in an unrealized loss position for a period of greater than two years but less than three years. The circumstances of this investment have no impact on other investments. Asset Distribution The following table provides the distribution of invested assets for the periods indicated, excluding the fixed maturity securities reported as discontinued operations. Ceded policy loans of $2.7 billion and $2.5 billion as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, which are reported on a gross basis in the statements of financial condition contained herein in Item 8, are excluded from the table below. The investment income on these ceded policy loans is not included in income. Distribution of Invested Assets December 31 2003 2002 Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities 88.5 % 85.6 % Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities 7.8 10.4 Equity Securities 0.1 0.1 Mortgage Loans 1.5 2.2 Real Estate 0.1 0.1 Short term Investments 1.1 0.8 Other Invested Assets 0.9 0.8 Total 100.0 % 100.0 % Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2003, included $31.1 billion, or 99.6 percent, of bonds and $128.0 million, or 0.4 percent, of redeemable preferred stocks. The following table shows the fair value composition by internal industry classification of the fixed maturity bond portfolio and the associated unrealized gains and losses. The fixed maturity securities reported as discontinued operations are included within the industry classifications. The Company does not expect the exclusion of the securities transferred to the buyer of the Canadian branch to materially change the distribution by industry classification. 65 Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Bonds By Industry Classification As of December 31, 2003 (in millions of dollars) Classification Fair Value NetUnrealizedGain (Loss) Fair Value ofBonds with GrossUnrealized Loss GrossUnrealizedLoss Fair Value ofBonds with GrossUnrealized Gain GrossUnrealizedGain Basic Industry $ 2,413.9 $ 175.6 $ 432.9 $ (35.7 ) $ 1,981.0 $ 211.3 Canadian 924.6 172.7 924.6 172.7 Capital Goods 2,129.1 223.7 229.7 (13.6 ) 1,899.4 237.3 Communications 2,713.7 291.2 387.2 (21.5 ) 2,326.5 312.7 Consumer Cyclical 1,396.0 105.8 142.8 (6.4 ) 1,253.2 112.2 Consumer Non Cyclical 3,350.4 250.3 669.8 (32.4 ) 2,680.6 282.7 Derivative Instruments 234.9 234.9 (11.9 ) (11.9 ) 246.8 246.8 Energy (Oil & Gas) 2,598.7 307.7 207.5 (17.7 ) 2,391.2 325.4 Financial Institutions 2,068.3 72.2 696.6 (77.9 ) 1,371.7 150.1 Mortgage/Asset Backed 4,473.8 462.3 55.6 (2.1 ) 4,418.2 464.4 Sovereigns 491.1 17.9 274.0 (7.7 ) 217.1 25.6 Technology 293.0 19.8 99.3 (3.3 ) 193.7 23.1 Transportation 1,137.2 90.0 159.8 (44.6 ) 977.4 134.6 U.S. Government Agencies and Municipalities 1,873.2 (120.6 ) 1,231.4 (160.8 ) 641.8 40.2 Utilities 4,960.7 471.3 919.0 (55.4 ) 4,041.7 526.7 Total $ 31,058.6 $ 2,774.8 $ 5,493.7 $ (491.0 ) $ 25,564.9 $ 3,265.8 As of December 31, 2003, $338.7 million or 69.0 percent of the unrealized losses in the fixed maturity bond portfolio were concentrated in financial institutions, transportation, U.S. government agencies and municipalities, and utilities. The Companys current view of risk factors relative to these four industries is as follows: Financial Institutions: This sector entered the recent economic slowdown with record capital levels and strong profitability. Bank balance sheets withstood the increased loan write offs through the recent economic cycle. Credit quality is now beginning to improve in the financial services sector. In general, fourth quarter of 2003 results showed little or no loan growth, stabilizing net interest margins, well managed risk positions in corporate lending, and overall improvement in asset quality. Profitability is strong at most banks, brokers, and finance companies. Transportation: This sector consists of airlines, airports, railroads, and shipping. The overall sector has encountered significant difficulties during the past two years, primarily in commercial aviation. Global and domestic economic weakness, war, and terrorism related fears have contributed to reductions in demand for air travel. High cost structures and over leveraged balance sheets at many of the airlines have also contributed to the deterioration of credit quality for many issuers of securities. The outlook for the airline/airport segment depends heavily on economic improvement, negotiations with labor unions, and continued expense reductions. Demand for railroad and shipping services is also highly correlated to the economy. U.S. Government Agencies and Municipalities: This sector includes the U.S. Government Treasury Department, government agencies, and government sponsored enterprises. The increase in U.S. Treasury interest rates during the third quarter of 2003 adversely affected the market value of the Companys holdings in this sector. The sector has minimal credit risk and excellent liquidity, which enables the Company to maintain a higher limitation on investments in these subsectors. Utilities: This sector, which includes regulated electric utilities, gas transmission and distribution companies, and independent power projects, is showing signs of improvement from the difficult environment that has existed over the past few years. Many companies are de emphasizing merchant power and energy trading operations and focusing instead on their core businesses. Balance sheets are being strengthened through the sale of non core assets and the repayment of debt. Several companies with liquidity problems have either renewed bank facilities or obtained other forms of new financing. However, significant challenges still remain for parts of this industry. There 66 Table of Contents is power generation over capacity in several parts of the U.S. where supply may exceed demand for several years. Those power plants whose main fuel supply is natural gas will continue to experience deteriorating margins due to the high cost of that commodity. A number of investigations and court rulings have been resolved due to the western states power crisis in 2001 and 2002, but several still remain outstanding, which could result in negative outcomes for certain utility companies. Of the $491.0 million in gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2003, $337.1 million, or 68.7 percent, are related to investment grade fixed maturity bonds. Unrealized losses on investment grade fixed maturity securities principally relate to changes in interest rates or changes in market or sector credit spreads which occurred subsequent to the acquisition of the securities. These changes are generally temporary and are not recognized as realized investment losses unless the securities are sold or become other than temporarily impaired. The gross unrealized loss on below investment grade fixed maturity bonds was $153.9 million at December 31, 2003, or 31.3 percent, of the total gross unrealized loss on fixed maturity bonds. Generally, below investment grade fixed maturity securities are more likely to develop credit concerns. The following table shows the length of time the Companys investment grade fixed maturity bonds had been in a gross unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2003. The Company has no unrealized losses in its Canadian branch fixed maturity bond portfolio. Unrealized Loss on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Bonds Length of Time in Unrealized Loss Position As of December 31, 2003 (in millions of dollars) Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss &lt; 90 days $ 1,078.2 $ (23.0 ) &gt;90&lt; 180 days 1,930.5 (80.7 ) &gt;180&lt; 270 days 1,146.6 (179.2 ) &gt;270 days &lt; 1 year 58.6 (4.0 ) &gt;1 year&lt; 2 years 40.0 (2.3 ) &gt;2 years&lt; 3 years 134.7 (22.7 ) &gt;3 years 75.7 (25.2 ) Totals $ 4,464.3 $ (337.1 ) The following table shows the length of time the Companys below investment grade fixed maturity bonds had been in a gross unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2003. The fair value and gross unrealized losses are categorized by the relationship of the current fair value to amortized cost for those securities on December 31, 2003. The fair value to amortized cost relationships are not necessarily indicative of the fair value to amortized cost relationships for the securities throughout the entire time that the securities have been in an unrealized loss position nor are they necessarily indicative of the relationships subsequent to December 31, 2003. 67 Table of Contents Unrealized Loss on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Bonds Length of Time in Unrealized Loss Position As of December 31, 2003 (in millions of dollars) Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss &lt; 90 days fair value &lt;100% &gt; 70% of amortized cost $ 22.5 $ (2.1 ) fair value &lt; 70% &gt; 40% of amortized cost 9.7 (5.2 ) Subtotal 32.2 (7.3 ) &gt;90&lt; 180 days fair value &lt;100% &gt; 70% of amortized cost 34.6 (3.8 ) &gt;180&lt; 270 days fair value &lt;100% &gt; 70% of amortized cost 22.3 (1.5 ) &gt;270 days &lt; 1 year fair value &lt;100% &gt; 70% of amortized cost 8.2 (1.9 ) &gt;1 year&lt; 2 years fair value &lt;100% &gt; 70% of amortized cost 549.3 (51.6 ) fair value &lt; 70% &gt; 40% of amortized cost 79.3 (45.7 ) Subtotal 628.6 (97.3 ) &gt;2 years&lt; 3 years fair value &lt;100% &gt; 70% of amortized cost 107.9 (20.7 ) fair value &lt; 70% &gt; 40% of amortized cost 2.0 (1.1 ) Subtotal 109.9 (21.8 ) &gt;3 years fair value &lt;100% &gt; 70% of amortized cost 174.7 (10.3 ) fair value &lt; 70% &gt; 40% of amortized cost 18.9 (10.0 ) Subtotal 193.6 (20.3 ) Totals $ 1,029.4 $ (153.9 ) 68 Table of Contents As previously discussed under Critical Accounting Policies contained herein, in determining whether a decline in fair value below amortized cost of a fixed maturity security is other than temporary, the Company utilizes a formal, well defined, and disciplined process to monitor and evaluate its fixed income investment portfolio. It includes certain members of senior management in addition to the Companys other investment and accounting professionals. The process results in a thorough evaluation of problem investments and write downs on a timely basis of investments determined to have an other than temporary impairment. For those fixed maturity securities with an unrealized loss and on which the Company has not recorded an impairment write down, the Company believes that the decline in fair value below amortized cost is temporary. The Company has the ability to hold its securities to the earlier of recovery or maturity and intends to hold all of its fixed maturity investments until maturity to meet its liability obligations. If information becomes available that changes the Companys assessment as to whether the Company will receive contractual payments related to a fixed maturity security and the security is also not projected to recover in value, the related security is generally sold. The Company may also in certain circumstances sell a security because of industry or environmental issues, to extend the duration of the investment portfolio, in response to mergers between issuers or other events which result in positions in excess of the Companys investment guidelines, and to take advantage of tender offers. The following table is a distribution of the maturity dates for fixed maturity bonds in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2003. Fixed Maturity Bonds By Maturity As of December 31, 2003 (in millions of dollars) Fair Value of Bonds withGross Unrealized Loss Gross Unrealized Loss Due in 1 year or less $ 2.5 $ (12.1 ) Due after 1 year up to 5 years 250.6 (15.2 ) Due after 5 years up to 10 years 1,010.8 (57.9 ) Due after 10 years 4,174.2 (403.7 ) Subtotal 5,438.1 (488.9 ) Mortgage Backed Securities 55.6 (2.1 ) Total $ 5,493.7 $ (491.0 ) 69 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2003, the Company held investment grade and below investment grade securities with a gross unrealized loss of $10.0 million or greater, as follows: Gross Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Bonds $10 Million or Greater As of December 31, 2003 (in millions of dollars) Fixed Maturity Bonds Fair Value Gross Unrealized Loss Length of Time in a Loss Position Investment Grade U.S. Government Sponsored Mortgage Funding Company $ 300.8 $ (19.9 ) &gt;90 days&lt; 180 days U.S. Government Sponsored Mortgage Funding Company 708.6 (134.3 ) &gt;180 days&lt; 270 days Principal Protected Equity Linked Note 45.6 (14.6 ) &gt;2 years&lt; 3 years Principal Protected Equity Linked Note 38.0 (24.5 ) &gt;3 years Total Investment Grade $ 1,093.0 $ (193.3 ) Below Investment Grade Fertilizer Joint Venture between Venezuelan Oil Company and U.S. Conglomerate $ 25.9 $ (11.6 ) &gt;1 year&lt; 2 years Notes Backed by Aircraft Leases to two U.S. Based Airlines 14.0 (10.4 ) &gt;1 year&lt; 2 years Total Below Investment Grade $ 39.9 $ (22.0 ) The Companys investment in mortgage backed and asset backed securities was approximately $4.0 billion and $5.0 billion on an amortized cost basis at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, including those securities reported as discontinued operations. At December 31, 2003, the mortgage backed securities had an average life of 4.7 years and effective duration of 5.8 years. The mortgage backed securities are valued on a monthly basis using valuations supplied by the brokerage firms that are dealers in these securities. The primary risk involved in investing in mortgage backed securities is the uncertainty of the timing of cash flows from the underlying loans due to prepayment of principal with the possibility of reinvesting the funds in a lower interest rate environment. The Company uses models which incorporate economic variables and possible future interest rate scenarios to predict future prepayment rates. The Company has not invested in mortgage backed derivatives, such as interest only, principal only or residuals, where market values can be highly volatile relative to changes in interest rates. The Companys exposure to below investment grade fixed maturity securities at December 31, 2003, was $2,442.7 million, representing 7.8 percent of the fair value of invested assets excluding ceded policy loans and fixed maturity securities reported as discontinued operations, below the Companys internal limit for this type of investment. The comparable measure at December 31, 2002 was $2,872.8 million or 10.4 percent. As previously discussed, the Company initiated a program during the first quarter of 2003 to reduce its risk exposure to below investment grade fixed maturity securities. Below investment grade bonds are inherently more risky than investment grade bonds since the risk of default by the issuer, by definition and as exhibited by bond rating, is higher. Also, the secondary market for certain below investment grade issues can be highly illiquid. The Company expects that additional downgrades of investment grade securities may occur during 2004, but the Company does not anticipate any liquidity problem caused by its investments in below investment grade securities, nor does it expect these investments to adversely affect its ability to hold its other investments to maturity. 70 Table of Contents The Company has an investment in a special purpose entity which is a collateralized bond obligation asset trust in which the Company holds interests in several of the tranches and for which the Company acts as investment manager of the underlying securities. This special purpose entity did not meet the consolidation requirements of FIN 46. The Companys investment in this entity was reported at fair value with fixed maturity securities in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The fair value of this investment was derived from the fair value of the underlying assets. The fair value and amortized cost of this investment was $27.0 million and $26.1 million, respectively, at December 31, 2003, and $6.9 million and $30.9 million, respectively, at December 31, 2002. Mortgage Loans and Real Estate The Companys mortgage loan portfolio was $474.7 million and $599.9 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The mortgage loan portfolio continues to be well diversified geographically and among property types. The incidence of problem mortgage loans and foreclosure activity remains low, and management expects the level of delinquencies and problem loans to remain low in the future. The Company sold mortgage loans with a book value of $95.1 million during 2002, resulting in a before tax realized investment gain of $1.2 million. The Company had no impaired mortgage loans at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2002, impaired mortgage loans totaled $6.0 million. Impaired mortgage loans are not expected to have a material impact on the Companys liquidity, financial position, or results of operations. Restructured mortgage loans totaled $7.5 million and $7.8 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and represent loans that have been refinanced with terms more favorable to the borrower. Interest lost on restructured loans was immaterial for 2003 and 2002. Real estate was $25.9 million and $37.1 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Investment real estate is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Real estate acquired through foreclosure is valued at fair value at the date of foreclosure and may be classified as investment real estate if it meets the Companys investment criteria. If investment real estate is determined to be permanently impaired, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to fair value. Occasionally, investment real estate is reclassified to real estate held for sale when it no longer meets the Companys investment criteria. Real estate held for sale, which is valued net of a valuation allowance that reduces the carrying value to the lower of cost or fair value less estimated cost to sell, amounted to $4.9 million and $8.2 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company uses a comprehensive rating system to evaluate the investment and credit risk of each mortgage loan and to identify specific properties for inspection and reevaluation. The Company establishes an investment valuation allowance for mortgage loans based on a review of individual loans and the overall loan portfolio, considering the value of the underlying collateral. Investment valuation allowances for real estate held for sale are established based on a review of specific assets. If a decline in value of a mortgage loan or real estate investment is considered to be other than temporary or if the asset is deemed permanently impaired, the investment is reduced to estimated net realizable value, and the reduction is recognized as a realized investment loss. Management monitors the risk associated with these invested asset portfolios and regularly reviews and adjusts the investment valuation allowance. At December 31, 2003, the balance in the valuation allowances for real estate was $9.3 million. No valuation allowance was held for mortgage loans at December 31, 2003. Derivatives Historically, the Company has utilized interest rate futures contracts, current and forward interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, and options on forward interest rate swaps, forward treasuries, or forward contracts on specific fixed income securities to manage duration and increase yield on cash flows expected from current holdings and future premium income. Positions under the Companys hedging programs for derivative activity that were open during 2003 involved current and forward interest rate swaps, forward contracts on credit spreads on specific fixed income securities, and currency swaps which are used to hedge the currency risk of certain foreign currency denominated fixed income securities. The Company also opened certain currency forward contracts to hedge the anticipated foreign currency proceeds from the sale of the Canadian branch. All transactions are hedging in nature and not speculative. Almost all transactions are associated with the individual and group long term care and the 71 Table of Contents individual and group income protection product portfolios. All other product portfolios are periodically reviewed to determine if hedging strategies would be appropriate for risk management purposes. During 2003, the Company recognized net gains of $79.6 million on the termination of cash flow hedges and reported $79.1 million in other comprehensive income (loss) and $0.5 million as a component of realized investment gains and losses. The Company amortized $17.3 million of net deferred gains into net investment income during 2003. The Companys current credit exposure on derivatives, which is limited to the value of those contracts in a net gain position, was $62.9 million at December 31, 2003. Additions and terminations, in notional amounts, to the Companys hedging programs for 2003, were $3,945.0 million and $1,326.6 million, respectively. The notional amount of derivatives outstanding under the hedge programs was $4,001.2 million at December 31, 2003. During 2003, the Company took advantage of the rise in interest rates and the steepening of the yield curve to hedge future period cash flows in the Companys individual long term care and individual income protection product lines. Approximately $2.8 billion of forward starting interest rate swaps (receive fixed) were executed at average expected yields in excess of 7.00%. These transactions produced a margin of 50 to 80 basis points above the Companys reserve discount rates and lengthened the duration of the Companys investment portfolio by approximately 0.5 years. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Companys use of derivatives. Non current Investments The Companys exposure to non current investments totaled $235.9 million at December 31, 2003, or 0.8 percent of invested assets from continuing operations, excluding ceded policy loans. These non current investments are fixed income securities, foreclosed real estate, and mortgage loans that became more than thirty days past due in principal and interest payments. Approximately $155.9 million of these investments had principal and interest payments past due for a period greater than one year. Other The Company has an investment program wherein it simultaneously enters into repurchase agreement transactions and reverse repurchase agreement transactions with the same party. The Company nets the related receivables and payables in the consolidated statements of financial condition as these transactions meet the requirements for the right of offset. As of December 31, 2003, the Company had $499.3 million face value of these agreements in an open position that were offset. The Company also uses the repurchase agreement market as a source of short term financing. The Company had no contracts for this purpose outstanding at December 31, 2003. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companys liquidity requirements are met primarily by cash flows provided from operations, principally in its insurance subsidiaries. Premium and investment income, as well as maturities and sales of invested assets, provide the primary sources of cash. The Companys offerings of debt and or securities, as discussed under Debt and Capital, provide an additional source of liquidity. Cash is applied to the payment of policy benefits, costs of acquiring new business (principally commissions), operating expenses, and taxes, as well as purchases of new investments. The Company has established an investment strategy that management believes will provide for adequate cash flows from operations. The Companys policy benefits are primarily in the form of claim payments, and the Company therefore has minimal exposure to the policy withdrawal risk associated with deposit products such as individual life policies or annuities. The Companys cash flows from operations could be negatively impacted by a decrease in demand for the Companys insurance products or an increase in the incidence of new claims or the duration of existing claims. Cash flow could also be negatively impacted by a deterioration in the credit market whereby the Companys ability to liquidate its positions in certain of its fixed maturity securities would be impacted such that the Company might not be able to dispose of these investments in a timely manner. The Companys cash resources are sufficient to meet its liquidity requirements for the next twelve months. 72 Table of Contents The Company continues to evaluate additional actions to strengthen its business and financial position. This may include, but not be limited to, further product rationalization, reinsurance opportunities, and asset sales. Such actions might impact future capital resources and financial results. Consolidated Cash Flows Operating Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,345.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, as compared to $1,786.7 million and $1,770.6 million for the comparable periods of 2002 and 2001. During 2003, by mutual consent the Company amended existing reinsurance contracts with one of its reinsurers to transform the contracts from coinsurance to modified coinsurance arrangements. In conjunction with those amendments, the Company, as the assuming reinsurer, transferred to the ceding reinsurer cash equal to the statutory disabled life reserves of approximately $286.2 million and established a corresponding receivable. The ceding reinsurer will retain the assets backing the statutory disabled life reserves and will credit interest at a 7.00 percent effective annual rate to the Company. This 2003 cash disbursement is included in cash flows from operations. Excluding this transfer, cash flows from operations were $1,631.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Operating cash flows are primarily attributable to the receipt of premium and investment income, offset by payments of claims, commissions, expenses, and income taxes. Premium income growth is attributable not only to new sales, but to renewals of existing business, renewal price increases, and stable persistency. Investment income growth is due to the growth in the underlying assets supporting the Companys insurance reserves, somewhat offset by a decline in portfolio yield rates. The growth in commissions and operating expenses is attributable primarily to new sales growth and the first year acquisition expenses associated with new business. The increase in paid claims is due partially to the continued growth and aging of the block of business and also to the general economy, as previously discussed in the operating results by segment. Investing Cash Flows Investing cash inflows consist primarily of the proceeds from the sales and maturities of investments. Investing cash outflows consist primarily of payments for purchases of investments. Net cash used in investing activities was $2,107.9 million and $1,586.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The $521.0 million increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2003 over 2002 is partly attributable to the Companys $1,151.7 million increase in investments acquired as a result of the deployment of the cash generated from the Companys combined offering during 2003. The Company generated $1,362.8 million in higher proceeds from maturities of available for sale securities in 2003 than in 2002, primarily due to an increase in bond calls and mortgage backed security prepayments that resulted from the lower interest rate environment. The Company received $573.0 million less in proceeds from sales of available for sale securities during 2003 compared to 2002. During 2002 and 2001, the Company essentially completed its portfolio repositioning initiated subsequent to the merger in June 1999. In 2003, the Company was more focused on investing, and its sales were primarily related to the reduction and restructuring of its below investment grade portfolio. During 2003, the Company had $152.5 million of cash outflows related to the disposition, through reinsurance ceded, of a block of policies previously sold through trade associations and cash inflows of $110.0 million related to the acquisition of Sun Life. The Company also received fixed maturity securities of approximately $118.4 million and other miscellaneous assets and liabilities of approximately $20.3 million and assumed reserves of approximately $285.9 million relative to the Sun Life acquisition, for a net purchase price of $37.2 million. Net cash used in investing activities decreased $132.0 million in 2002 relative to 2001, to $1,586.9 million compared to $1,718.9 million in the prior year. In 2002, the Company had a net sale of short term investments of $162.0 million compared to a net purchase of $101.2 million in 2001. Additionally, the Company generated $468.8 million in higher proceeds from maturities of available for sale securities in 2002 than in 2001 primarily due to an increase in bond calls and mortgage backed security prepayments. In 2002, the Company had cash outflows of $2.8 million to acquire whereiwork, compared to 2001 cash outflows of $19.2 million related to the acquisition of EmployeeLife.com and Resource Opportunities, Inc. Net cash outflows in 73 Table of Contents 2001 also included $382.9 million in disbursements related to reinsurance transactions through which the Company disposed of two blocks of business. The Company disbursed $288.3 million in conjunction with the reinsurance transaction wherein it ceded its group disability reinsurance reserves underwritten and managed by Duncanson and Holt Services, Inc. and $94.6 million in disbursements to cede a block of cancer policies. Financing Cash Flows Financing cash flows consist primarily of borrowings and repayments of debt, issuance or repurchase of common stock, and dividends paid to stockholders. Net cash provided by financing activities was $734.8 million for 2003 compared to net cash used of $178.4 million for 2002. The $913.2 million increase in cash from financing activities in 2003 from 2002 was due to the Companys combined offering in May 2003, as discussed as follows under Debt and Capital, which provided $575.0 million in proceeds from the issuance of long term debt, less underwriting discounts of $17.2 million, and $547.7 million in net proceeds from the issuance of common stock. Proceeds from the issuance of long term debt in 2002 were $400.0 million, used primarily to refinance existing commercial paper borrowings. Net cash used by financing activities increased $161.9 million in 2002 from 2001. The Company received proceeds of $400.0 million from the issuance of long term debt in 2002 compared to $575.0 million in 2001. The proceeds from these offerings were used primarily to refinance existing commercial paper borrowings of $397.0 million in 2002 and $254.2 million in 2001. During 2002, the Company used $45.0 million in cash to repurchase its common stock. During 2001, the Company also redeemed long term debt of $172.5 million. Cash Available from Subsidiaries The Company is dependent upon payments from its subsidiaries to pay dividends to its stockholders, to pay its debt obligations, and to pay its expenses. These payments by the Companys insurance and non insurance subsidiaries may take the form of interest payments on amounts loaned to such subsidiaries by the Company, operating and investment management fees, and or dividends. At December 31, 2003, the Company had outstanding from its insurance subsidiaries a $150.0 million surplus debenture due in 2006 with a weighted average interest rate during 2003 of 8.32 percent and a $100.0 million surplus debenture due in 2027 with a weighted average interest rate during 2003 of 8.25 percent. Semi annual interest payments are conditional upon the approval by the insurance department of the applicable state of domicile. Restrictions under applicable state insurance laws limit the amount of ordinary dividends that can be paid to the Company from its insurance subsidiaries in any 12 month period without prior approval by regulatory authorities. For life insurance companies domiciled in the United States, that limitation equals, depending on the state of domicile, either ten percent of an insurers statutory surplus with respect to policyholders as of the preceding year end or the statutory net gain from operations, excluding realized investment gains and losses, of the preceding year. Further, pursuant to the 1999 merger of Unum and Provident, the Company is required to obtain approval from the Maine Bureau of Insurance (Maine Bureau) regarding payment of ordinary dividends from the Companys Maine domiciled insurance subsidiary until July of 2004. The payment of ordinary dividends to the Company from its insurance subsidiaries is further limited to the amount of statutory surplus as it relates to policyholders. Based on the restrictions under current law, during 2004, $384.8 million is available for the payment of ordinary dividends to the Company from its domestic insurance subsidiaries. Of this amount, $117.7 million is conditional upon approval from the Maine Bureau. The Company also has the ability to draw a dividend from its United Kingdom based affiliate, Unum Limited. Such dividends are limited in amount, based on insurance company law in the United Kingdom, which requires a minimum solvency margin. Approximately $135.0 million will be available for the payment of dividends from Unum Limited during 2004. The amount available during 2003 for the payment of ordinary dividends from the Companys domestic insurance subsidiaries was $328.5 million, including $113.1 million available with approval from the Maine Bureau. Of the total available, $20.0 million was utilized, and no amounts were requested by the Company from the Maine Bureau. The amount available during 2003 from Unum Limited was $94.6 million, none of which was utilized. 74 Table of Contents The ability of the Company to continue to receive dividends from its insurance subsidiaries without regulatory approval will be dependent upon the level of earnings of its insurance subsidiaries as calculated under law. In addition to regulatory restrictions, the amount of dividends that will be paid by insurance subsidiaries will depend on additional factors, such as risk based capital ratios, funding growth objectives at an affiliate level, and maintaining appropriate capital adequacy ratios to support the ratings desired by the Company. Insurance regulatory restrictions do not limit the amount of dividends available for distribution to the Company from its non insurance subsidiaries except where the non insurance subsidiaries are held directly or indirectly by an insurance subsidiary and only indirectly by the Company. The Companys risk based capital (RBC) ratio for its U.S. insurance subsidiaries, calculated on a weighted average basis using the NAIC Company Action Level formula, was 247 percent and 210 percent at the end of 2003 and 2002, respectively. The increase in the ratio during 2003 resulted primarily from capital contributions of $510.0 million in cash and $119.6 million in other assets. The cash contributions resulted from the combined offering in May 2003, as further discussed under Debt and Capital below. The individual RBC ratios for the Companys principal operating subsidiaries ranged from 216 percent to 305 percent at December 31, 2003. The individual RBC ratio for each insurance subsidiary is above the range that would require state regulatory action. The Company anticipates that its RBC ratio for its U.S. insurance subsidiaries, calculated on a weighted average basis, will increase from 247 percent, as reported at the end of 2003, to approximately 277 percent upon completion of the sale of the Canadian branch. Debt and Capital At December 31, 2003, the Company had long term debt totaling $2,789.0 million. The Company had no short term debt. As previously discussed, effective December 31, 2003, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN 46. Transition to the provisions of FIN 46 resulted in the de consolidation of a trust that currently holds $300.0 million of junior subordinated debt securities of the Company and has issued a similar amount of mandatorily redeemable preferred securities. The impact of the de consolidation was the elimination of the company obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trust holding solely junior subordinated debt securities of the company included in the consolidated statements of financial condition and the inclusion of the $300.0 million junior subordinated debt securities in long term debt. At December 31, 2003, the debt to total capital ratio was 31.6 percent compared to 29.5 percent at December 31, 2002 and 29.8 percent at December 31, 2001. The debt to total capital ratio, when calculated allowing 50 percent equity credit for the Companys junior subordinated debt securities and 80 percent equity credit for the Companys adjustable conversion rate equity security units, was 24.7 percent at December 31, 2003 compared to 27.7 percent at December 31, 2002 and 28.0 percent at December 31, 2001. During the fourth quarter of 2002, the Company filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) a shelf registration on Form S 3. The shelf was declared effective in April 2003. The shelf registration allowed the Company to issue various types of securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, depository shares, stock purchase contracts, units and warrants, or preferred securities of wholly owned finance trusts up to an aggregate of $1.5 billion. The shelf registration enabled the Company to raise funds from the offering of any individual security covered by the shelf registration as well as any combination thereof, subject to market conditions and the Companys capital needs. On May 7, 2003, the Company issued 45,980,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.10 per share, in a public offering and received approximately $476.3 million in proceeds from the sale of the shares of common stock after deducting underwriting discounts. Also on May 7, 2003, the Company issued 20,000,000 8.25% adjustable conversion rate equity security units (units) in a public offering. The Company received approximately $485.0 million in proceeds from the sale of the units after deducting underwriting discounts. Each unit has a stated amount of $25 and will initially consist of (a) a contract pursuant to which the holder agrees to purchase, for $25, shares of the Companys common stock on May 15, 2006 and (b) a 1/40, or 2.5%, ownership interest in a senior note issued by the Company due May 15, 2008 with a principal amount of $1,000. On May 14, 2003, the Company sold 6,897,000 additional shares of common stock pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters overallotment option relating to the above offering. The net proceeds to the Company were approximately $71.4 million after deducting underwriting discounts. Also on May 14, 2003, the Company sold 3,000,000 additional units pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters overallotment option relating to the above offering. The net proceeds to the Company were approximately $72.8 million after deducting underwriting discounts. The proceeds from these offerings were used primarily to increase the capitalization of the Companys insurance subsidiaries and to repay amounts loaned to the Company from its insurance subsidiaries. No additional funding capacity remains on the shelf registration. Upon settlement of the common stock purchase contract and 75 Table of Contents successful remarketing of the senior note element of the units, the Company will receive proceeds of approximately $575.0 million and will issue between 43.3 million and 52.9 million shares of common stock. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements contained herein in Part II, Item 8 for further description of the units. In the first quarter of 2001, the Company completed a long term debt offering, issuing $575.0 million of 7.625% senior notes due March 1, 2011. In the second quarter of 2002, the Company completed two long term offerings, issuing $250.0 million of 7.375% senior debentures due June 15, 2032 and $150.0 million of 7.250% public income notes due June 15, 2032. The public income notes are redeemable at the Companys option, in whole or in part, on or after June 25, 2007. Proceeds from the offerings were used to refinance existing commercial paper borrowings. During 2000, the Company entered into $1.0 billion senior revolving credit facilities with a group of banks. The facilities are split into five year revolver and 364 day portions. The Company received a 90 day extension on the 364 day portion of the credit facilities which was to expire on October 29, 2002. In connection with that extension, the Company elected to reduce the size of the credit facilities from $1.0 billion to $750.0 million and reduce the size of the commercial paper program to $750.0 million. On January 27, 2003, the Company elected not to renew the 364 day portion of the credit facilities upon the expiration date for the 90 day extension, retaining only the $472.5 million five year revolver portion. The Companys commercial paper program was similarly reduced in size to $472.5 million. Since the primary function of this credit facility was to provide support for the Companys commercial paper program and the Company had been unable to access the commercial paper markets, on May 1, 2003 the Company terminated this facility in connection with the previously discussed combined offering. There were never any borrowings under the credit facility. The Companys commercial paper program was similarly terminated. During 2001 the Company redeemed its $172.5 million par value 8.8% monthly income debt securities (junior subordinated debt), which were due in 2025 but callable at par in 2000 and thereafter. The early extinguishment of debt resulted in a fourth quarter of 2001 write off of the remaining deferred debt cost of $4.5 million associated with the issuance of the securities. In 1998, the Company completed public offerings of $200.0 million of 7.25% senior notes due March 15, 2028, $200.0 million of 6.375% senior notes due July 15, 2005, $200.0 million of 7.0% senior notes due July 15, 2018, and $250.0 million of 6.75% senior notes due December 15, 2028. In 1998, Provident Financing Trust I issued $300.0 million of 7.405% capital securities in a public offering. These capital securities, which mature on March 15, 2038, are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the Company, have a liquidation value of $1,000 per capital security, and have a mandatory redemption feature under certain circumstances. The Company issued $300.0 million of 7.405% junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures, which mature on March 15, 2038, to Provident Financing Trust I in connection with the capital securities offering. The sole assets of Provident Financing Trust I are the junior subordinated debt securities. During the second quarter of 2002, the Companys board of directors authorized a common stock repurchase program under which the Company acquired approximately 1.8 million shares of its common stock in the open market at an aggregate cost of approximately $45.0 million. The treasury stock is used in connection with the Companys benefit and compensation plans and for other corporate purposes. The program expired in 2003. 76 Table of Contents Commitments Contractual debt, junior subordinated debt securities, adjustable conversion rate equity security units, and lease commitments are as follows (in millions of dollars): Payments Due Total In 1 Year or Less After 1 Year up to 3 Years After 3 Years up to 5 Years After 5 Years Long term Debt $ 1,914.0 $ $ 227.0 $ $ 1,687.0 Adjustable Conversion rate Equity Security Units 575.0 575.0 Junior Subordinated Debt Securities 300.0 300.0 Operating Leases 143.6 37.5 58.4 36.8 10.9 Total $ 2,932.6 $ 37.5 $ 285.4 $ 611.8 $ 1,997.9 The Company has an agreement with an outside party wherein the Company is provided computer data processing services and related functions. The contract was renegotiated effective January 1, 2004, and under the revised terms, the contract will expire in 2013, but the Company may cancel the agreement effective January 2006 or later upon payment of applicable cancellation charges. The aggregate noncancelable contractual obligation remaining under this agreement, as amended, was $115.2 million at January 1, 2004, with no annual payment expected to exceed $53.4 million. Immediately preceding the effective date of the renegotiation, the aggregate noncancelable contractual obligation remaining under the agreement was $101.1 million. At December 31, 2003, the Company had capital commitments of $38.8 million to fund certain of its private placement fixed maturity securities. The funds are due upon satisfaction of contractual notice from the trustee or issuer. These amounts may or may not be funded during the term of the security. Ratings Standard & Poors Corporation (S&P), Moodys Investors Service (Moodys), Fitch, Inc. (Fitch), and A.M. Best Company (AM Best) are among the third parties that provide the Company assessments of its overall financial position. Ratings from these agencies for financial strength are available for the individual U.S. domiciled insurance company subsidiaries. Financial strength ratings are based primarily on U.S. statutory financial information for the individual U.S. domiciled insurance companies. Debt ratings for the Company are based primarily on consolidated financial information prepared using generally accepted accounting principles. Both financial strength ratings and debt ratings incorporate qualitative analyses by rating agencies on an ongoing basis. If the Company were to experience negative operating trends, it could result in a downgrade of the current ratings, which might affect the Companys ability to sell and retain its business. In the first quarter of 2004, the ratings from Moodys and Fitch were placed under review for a possible downgrade due to concerns expressed about the Companys fourth quarter of 2003 reserve strengthening for group income protection and the profitability for this line of business. Management intends to meet with each rating agency during March and April of 2004 to respond to these concerns and outline the Companys financial and business plans for 2004. See Risk Factors Debt and Financial Strength Ratings contained herein in Item 1 for further discussion. 77 Table of Contents The table below reflects the debt ratings, as of the date of this filing, for the Company and the financial strength ratings for the U.S. domiciled insurance company subsidiaries. S&P Moodys Fitch AM Best UnumProvident Corporation Senior Debt BBB (Good) Baa3 (Medium Grade) BBB (Good) bbb U.S. Insurance Subsidiaries Provident Life & Accident A (Strong) A3 (Good Financial Security) A (Strong) A (Excellent) Provident Life & Casualty Not Rated Not Rated Not Rated A (Excellent) Unum Life of America A (Strong) A3 (Good Financial Security) A (Strong) A (Excellent) First Unum Life A (Strong) A3 (Good Financial Security) A (Strong) A (Excellent) Colonial Life & Accident A (Strong) A3 (Good Financial Security) A (Strong) A (Excellent) Paul Revere Life A (Strong) A3 (Good Financial Security) A (Strong) A (Excellent) Paul Revere Variable A (Strong) A3 (Good Financial Security) A (Strong) A (Excellent) These ratings are not directed toward the holders of the Companys securities and are not recommendations to buy, sell, or hold such securities. Each rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Other Information Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans The Company maintains separate U.S. and foreign pension plans and a U.S. post retirement benefit plan. The U.S. pension plans comprise the majority of the total benefit obligation and pension expense for the Company. The value of the benefit obligations is determined based on a set of economic and demographic assumptions that represent the Companys best estimate of future expected experience. These assumptions are reviewed annually. Two of the economic assumptions, the discount rate and the long term rate of return, are adjusted accordingly based on key external indices. The assumptions chosen for U.S. pension plans and the U.S. postretirement plan use consistent methodology but reflect the differences in the plan obligations. The Company follows Statements of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87, Employers Accounting for Pensions (SFAS 87), No. 106, Employers Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions (SFAS 106), and No. 132, Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits (SFAS 132) in its financial reporting and accounting for its pension and post retirement benefit plans. The discount rate is an interest assumption used to convert the benefit payment stream to a present value. The discount rate was determined based on a review of long term fixed income securities that receive one of the two highest ratings given by a recognized rating agency. In setting the assumption, the Company also has considered the change in the level of interest rates on these securities since the prior year end and the duration of the fixed income indices relative to the duration of the plans liabilities. Historically, the Company has used the Moodys Aa corporate bond index as one of the primary benchmarks in selecting a discount rate. As of December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, this index was 6.01 percent, 6.52 percent, and 7.08 percent, respectively. The Company has estimated that the duration of the index is approximately 13 years. The majority of the obligations in the U.S. pension plans, however, is related to active and deferred vested employees, and duration, therefore, is significantly longer, at approximately 21 years. The Company therefore adjusted the Moodys index upward by approximately 25 basis points to arrive at the discount rate assumption of 6.25 percent, 6.75 percent, and 7.35 percent as of December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Studies matching the benefit cash flows of the pension plans to publicly traded bonds supported the rates assumed by the Company. Using a similar methodology applied to the 78 Table of Contents postretirement plan cash flows, a discount rate of 6.10 percent was used as of December 31, 2003. The discount rate for the postretirement plan as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 was the same as that used for the U.S. pension plans. Lowering the discount rate by 0.5 percent would have increased the 2003 pension expense for the U.S. pension plans by $8.5 million and would be expected to result in an $8.6 million increase in the 2004 pension plan expense. The long term rate of return assumption is the best estimate of the average annual assumed return that will be produced from the pension trust assets until current benefits are paid. For 2004, 2003, and 2002, the long term return on asset assumption for the U.S. pension plans is 8.50 percent, 8.50 percent, and 9.00 percent, respectively. The determination of the best estimate is based on a building block approach. This methodology examines the various elements of the expected return for each asset class, such as inflation, dividends, real return, and risk premium. The expected return for each asset class is calculated as the sum of the individual components. The total expected return for the portfolio equals the weighted average of the return for each asset class, based on the plans asset allocation. During 2003, the Company revised the investment policy which resulted in a target asset allocation of 70 percent equities and 30 percent fixed income securities as compared to a target asset allocation of 75 percent equities and 25 percent fixed income securities in 2002. The expected long term rate of return assumption for the U.S. pension plans in 2003 is 8.50 percent. This assumption is based on a weighted average expected return of approximately 5.40 percent annually for fixed income investments and 10.0 percent annually for equities, which equates to a weighted average return of 8.63 percent. The Companys expectations for future investment returns in the plans are based on a combination of historical market performance and the Companys evaluation of investment forecasts prepared by outside consultants and economists. Since 1926, the average real return (before inflation) has been approximately 8.00 percent for equities and 2.5 percent for bonds. The Company has not relied extensively on the historical market performance of the U.S. pension plans in setting the expected long term rate of return assumption. This is because the current plan is composed of three plans that were merged to create one plan in 2000. Furthermore, in 2000, annuities were purchased for all existing retirees. Due to the nature of these changes, the historical performance of these plans is not a reliable indicator of future expected performance. In calculating the average return over the lifetime of the plan, the duration of the projected benefit obligation, at approximately 21 years, also has been considered, as well as the effect of active management of the plans assets. For the U.S. pension plans, the actual asset allocation at December 31, 2003 was 75 percent equities and 25 percent fixed income securities. The Company adopted a new investment policy in December 2003, as previously discussed, and began rebalancing the asset mix of the investment portfolio at that time. The investment portfolio contains a diversified blend of large, mid, small, and convertible equity securities, as well as core and high yield fixed income securities. The Company uses a compound interest method in computing the rate of return on pension plan assets. Lowering the expected long term rate of return on the plan assets by 0.5 percent would have increased the 2003 pension expense by approximately $1.8 million. For 2004, lowering the assumption by 0.5 percent would increase pension expense by approximately $2.1 million. The market related value equals the fair value of assets, determined as of the measurement date. The assets are not smoothed for purposes of SFAS 87. The expected return on assets, therefore, fully recognizes all asset gains and losses through the measurement date. The Company holds an unrecognized net gain or loss representing cumulative liability and asset gains and losses that have not been recognized in pension expense. As of December 31, 2003, there was an estimated unrecognized loss of approximately $268.3 million in the U.S. pension plans. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, the unrecognized loss was $291.2 million and $38.0 million, respectively. The unrecognized loss has increased due to asset market value losses that occurred during 2001 and 2002 and the drop in the year end discount rate from 7.35 percent at 2001, to 6.75 percent at 2002, and to 6.25 percent at 2003. The unrecognized net gain or loss is amortized in the pension expense. Only amounts outside of a corridor (equal to 10 percent of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or market related value of assets) are amortized. The 2004 pension expense is expected to include a loss amortization of approximately $16.0 million. This loss amortization was $18.0 million in 2003 and $1.0 million in 2002. In 2001, the pension expense included gain amortization of $4.0 million. The U.S. pension plans experienced a negative pension expense in 2002 and 2001 that increased before tax income in the amount of $2.6 million and $17.7 million, respectively, in each of those years. In 2003, the Company experienced a pension expense of $41.8 million that decreased before tax income. 79 Table of Contents The end of the year value of the assets in the funded U.S. pension plans declined from $458.0 million in 2001 to $349.6 million in 2002 and increased to $423.9 million in 2003. The decrease in assets, coupled with the liability increase due to declining discount rates, has reduced the year end funding level in the plan from a surplus of $139.0 million in 2001 to a deficit of $99.0 million in 2002 and a deficit of $113.2 million as of December 31, 2003. The Company contributes to the U.S. pension plans in accordance with the minimum funding requirements of ERISA. The Company was not required to make a minimum required contribution in 2003, nor will it be required to make a contribution in 2004. Based on projections performed by the Companys actuaries, it is anticipated that contributions will be required in 2005 and or 2006. The Company may decide to contribute an amount above the minimum required contribution. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The Company is subject to various market risk exposures including interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate risk. The following discussion regarding the Companys risk management activities includes forward looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. Estimates of future performance and economic conditions are reflected assuming certain changes in market rates and prices were to occur (sensitivity analysis). Caution should be used in evaluating the Companys overall market risk from the information presented below, as actual results may differ. The Company employs various derivative programs to manage these material market risks. See Notes 4 and 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions of the qualitative aspects of market risk, including derivative financial instrument activity. Interest Rate Risk The operations of the Company are subject to risk resulting from interest rate fluctuations, primarily long term U.S. interest rates. Changes in interest rates and individuals behavior affect the amount and timing of asset and liability cash flows. Management continually models and tests asset and liability portfolios to improve interest rate risk management and net yields. Testing the asset and liability portfolios under various interest rate and economic scenarios allows management to choose the most appropriate investment strategy, as well as to prepare for disadvantageous outcomes. This analysis is the precursor to the Companys activities in derivative financial instruments. The Company uses interest rate swaps, interest rate forward contracts, exchange traded interest rate futures contracts, and options to hedge interest rate risks and to match asset durations and cash flows with corresponding liabilities. Assuming an immediate increase of 100 basis points in interest rates from year end levels, the net hypothetical decrease in stockholders equity related to financial and derivative instruments was estimated to be $1.0 billion at December 31, 2003 and 2002. The fair values of mortgage loans, which are reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition at amortized cost, would decrease by approximately $20 million and $30 million at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, assuming a 100 basis point decrease in long term interest rates from year end levels, the fair values of the Companys long term debt, including junior subordinated debt, would increase approximately $225 million and $175 million, respectively. The effect of a change in interest rates on asset prices was determined using a matrix pricing system whereby all securities were priced with the resulting market rates and spreads assuming a change of 100 basis points. These hypothetical prices were compared to the actual prices for the period to compute the overall change in market value. The changes in the fair values of long term debt, including junior subordinated debt, were determined using discounted cash flows analyses. Because the Company actively manages its investments and liabilities, actual changes could be less than those estimated above. 80 Table of Contents Foreign Currency Risk The Company is also subject to foreign exchange risk arising from its continuing foreign operations and certain investment securities denominated in those local currencies. Continuing foreign operations represented 5.2 percent and 3.9 percent of total assets at December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, and 5.7 percent and 4.6 percent of total revenue for 2003 and 2002, respectively. Assuming foreign exchange rates decreased 10 percent from the December 31, 2003 and 2002 levels, year end 2003 and 2002 stockholders equity would not be materially affected. 81 Table of Contents 
 
