FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20030714205832.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99
Second Quarter 2003 Highlights:
For 2002, the first quarter transitional goodwill impairment charge of $276 million, accounted for as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, is excluded above and in the text and tables on pages 1-9 of this release.
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record diluted earnings per common share of $.90 for second quarter 2003, compared with $.82 in second quarter 2002, up 10 percent. Net income was a record $1.53 billion, up 7 percent from $1.42 billion in second quarter 2002. For the first half of 2003, net income was a record $3.02 billion, up 8 percent from the first six months of 2002, and diluted earnings per share were a record $1.78 for the first six months of 2003, up 10 percent from the prior year.
     "This was another great quarter of double-digit revenue and earnings per share growth - in fact, it was the eighth consecutive quarter of record revenue and profits," said Chairman and CEO Dick Kovacevich. "This continued strong performance is a tribute to the outstanding efforts of our 139,000 talented team members, and to the diversity of businesses, revenue sources and markets. In view of the strength and consistency of our results, as well as the recent changes in tax laws, we are evaluating our dividend policy.
     In addition to earning more of our customers' business, we're also adding new customers through acquisitions. Our pending purchase of Seattle-based Pacific Northwest Bancorp will bring us more than $3 billion in assets in Washington and Oregon and a deeper presence in both the consumer and commercial markets in those states. We're also responding to the financial services needs of our increasingly diverse markets. As the USA's largest NAFTA bank, we've become the financial services company of choice for more and more Mexican nationals who are entering the mainstream of the U.S. economy in growing numbers. As the first large financial services company to promote acceptance of the matricula consular identification card, we've enabled more than 80,000 Mexican nationals to open bank accounts with Wells Fargo.
     As the largest financial services company headquartered in California, we hope the legislature can solve the current state budget crisis and pass a state budget before the end of next month. Like many other states, California needs a mandated rainy-day reserve fund for use when tax revenues decline dramatically. Our headquarters state has an outstanding reputation for its entrepreneurial spirit, creativity and diversity. There's no reason why it cannot also be known as a great state in which to do business."
     Diluted earnings per share were $.90, up 10 percent from $.82 in second quarter 2002. Second quarter 2003 included $47 million of net losses from equity investments, or $27 million of net losses ($.01 per share loss) after bond gains of $20 million. Absent a significant reversal in the equity markets, the Company does not anticipate the need to record any additional losses in its private and public equity portfolios. "Second quarter results marked the eighth consecutive quarter of record, double-digit EPS growth," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "The continuation of strong, consistent earnings growth was accomplished within the context of several significant steps taken by the Company to further improve its overall financial position. In addition to the losses taken in our private and public equity portfolios, we reduced capitalized mortgage servicing rights by approximately $400 million, improved credit quality, and lengthened the duration of our funding to maintain a neutral interest rate profile and further build the Company's long-term liquidity."
Financial Performance
 
     Revenue grew 12 percent from second quarter 2002, with year-over-year revenue growth accelerating from first quarter 2003 to second quarter 2003. On a linked-quarter basis, revenue increased 15 percent. Net interest income, up 11 percent year-over-year, reflected strong growth in loans and deposits, and noninterest income, up 14 percent, reflected solid growth in almost all fee-based businesses. "Virtually all of our businesses had a strong quarter of sales and revenue growth, including all of our consumer businesses, mortgage banking, corporate banking, asset-based lending, capital markets and insurance," said Atkins. For the first half of 2003, revenue was up 11 percent over the prior year. As of June 30, 2003, the Company had net unrealized gains of $1.6 billion on equity and debt securities available for sale.
Revenue
     Average loans of $209 billion for second quarter 2003 increased 17 percent from second quarter 2002. "The double-digit loan growth was generated primarily by the continued strong consumer demand for residential first mortgage and home equity loans and other revolving credit and installment loans, combined with increased cross-sell of these products to our banking households and mortgage servicing customers," said Atkins. On a combined basis, average consumer loans and real estate first mortgage loans increased almost $29 billion, or 33 percent, from the same period last year. The Company also had strong loan growth in other key consumer areas, including personal loans and lines of credit, which saw funded balance growth of 46 percent in second quarter 2003, compared with second quarter 2002. Average commercial loans increased 2 percent from a year ago, and 4 percent (annualized), from first quarter 2003 due primarily to loan demand in small business and asset-based lending.
Loans
     Average core deposits grew 15 percent year-over-year. Excluding mortgage escrow deposits, average core deposits of $185 billion grew $15 billion, or 9 percent, from second quarter 2002. Most of this adjusted growth was driven by a 14 percent increase in consumer and business noninterest-bearing checking balances. Average interest-bearing core deposits, including interest-bearing checking accounts, CDs, market rate accounts and other savings products, grew 7 percent.
Deposits
     "Growth in net interest income continued to be strong and consistent, despite volatile interest rates in the second quarter," said Atkins. The 11 percent year-over-year growth in net interest income was attributable to strong growth in loans and deposits. Since the additional loans were booked at lower yields due to a declining interest rate environment, the Company's net interest margin was impacted by loan growth, with the doubling of the mortgage warehouse alone accounting for over half of the decline in the net interest margin.
Net Interest Income
     "In addition, during the past several quarters, the Company shortened the duration of its investment portfolio through sales and prepayments of longer-term mortgage-backed securities, and in the second quarter, the Company modestly lengthened the duration of its funding. While these activities had a negative impact on our current period revenue and
 
margin, they will provide us with flexibility to add securities if longer-term interest rates continue to rise," said Atkins.
     Noninterest income in second quarter 2003 increased 14 percent from a year ago. "We continued to see broad-based strength in almost all of our businesses' fee income lines including mortgage banking fees, deposit service charges, credit cards, insurance and loan fees," said Atkins. "In addition, in the latter part of the quarter, we began to see improvement in our trust and investment fees and commissions, reflecting the improved equity markets, as well as our efforts to grow this business line."
Noninterest Income
     Second quarter mortgage originations of $135 billion set a new record for the Company. Origination fees were up strongly for the quarter, but were offset in part by $620 million of impairment provisioning which resulted in an approximate $400 million decline, from $4.2 billion to $3.8 billion, in capitalized mortgage servicing rights. At June 30, 2003, mortgage servicing rights were .73 percent of mortgage loans serviced for others. Given the record mortgage pipeline of $120 billion at the end of the second quarter, up from $89 billion at the end of the first quarter, the Company expects the mortgage warehouse to remain high in third quarter 2003.
     Noninterest expense was $4.0 billion in second quarter 2003, compared with $3.4 billion in second quarter 2002, and $3.8 billion in first quarter 2003. "The strong growth in our first mortgage and home equity businesses accounted for 70 percent of our year-over-year expense growth and 80 percent of our linked-quarter expense growth," said Atkins. "We continue to invest in our customers-including a variety of service initiatives-while continuing to make progress in reducing non-labor costs."
Noninterest Expense
     "We are pleased with our second quarter credit results. Our various credit portfolios continued to demonstrate stability and performed within our expected range," said Chief Credit Officer Dave Munio. Second quarter net credit losses were $424 million, or .81 percent of average loans outstanding (annualized), compared with $425 million, or .87 percent, for first quarter 2003. "Overall loss rates continued to improve in the second quarter, although dollar losses were essentially flat due to portfolio growth," said Munio. "All commercial and consumer lines of business continued to demonstrate satisfactory credit results. The allowance for loan losses remained strong and covered annualized charge-offs and nonperforming assets each by more than two times."
Credit Quality
     Nonperforming assets at June 30, 2003 of $1.76 billion, or .82 percent of total loans, were down slightly from March 31, 2003 ($1.77 billion or .86 percent) and were $102 million, or 5 percent, lower than at June 30, 2002.
 
     Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. More financial information about the business segments is on pages 19 and 26.
Business Segment Performance
     
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
     Community Banking reported net income of $1,059 million in second quarter 2003, compared with $1,003 million for the same period in 2002, up 6 percent. Community Banking's revenue was up 14 percent from the second quarter of last year. Net interest income increased by $317 million, or 12 percent, compared with second quarter 2002, primarily due to growth in consumer loans, mortgages held for sale and deposits. Noninterest income was up $277 million, or 17 percent, in second quarter 2003, compared with 2002. Noninterest expense increased by $480 million in second quarter 2003, or 19 percent, compared with the same period of 2002, due primarily to increased mortgage originations. The provision for loan losses increased by $38 million in second quarter 2003, compared with second quarter 2002, due to 23 percent growth in average loans.
     "Thanks to the dedication of our team, we continued to improve sales and service to our regional banking customers," said John Stumpf, Group EVP, Community Banking. "Core deposits increased 14 percent this quarter compared with the same period last year. The number of consumer checking accounts increased by 6 percent this quarter, compared with the same period last year, as retention improved. Core product sales for the second quarter were up 9 percent and sales per platform banker exceeded 4.75 per day, an all time high. Retaining
 
our team members is key to providing outstanding service. We've reduced our attrition rate of team members by 11 percent on a year-to-date basis in 2003, compared with the same period last year."
     In May, the Company announced a definitive agreement to acquire Pacific Northwest Bancorp (NASDAQ: PNWB), a Seattle-based bank holding company with $3.1 billion in assets. "The acquisition will strengthen our business banking presence and distribution in the Pacific Northwest," said Stumpf.
     "Wells Fargo again demonstrated its leadership in helping homeowners succeed financially and its support of homeownership through funding $135 billion of home loans during the quarter, up $32 billion from the first quarter," said Mark Oman, Group EVP, Home and Consumer Finance. "The impact of the lowest interest rates in forty years and the flood of home financing activity were best reflected in the record $204 billion of applications taken by Home Mortgage during the second quarter." Home Mortgage's owned servicing portfolio showed solid growth, up $96 billion from second quarter 2002 in the quarter. The portfolio totaled $582 billion at the end of the quarter, with a weighted average note rate of 6.21 percent.
     Reflecting the declining mortgage rates from March 31, 2003 to June 30, 2003, an additional $620 million of impairment provision was recorded in the quarter. Mortgage servicing rights were carried at $3.8 billion on June 30, 2003, down $362 million from March 31, 2003 and down over $2.1 billion from June 30, 2002.
     "We continued to see very strong growth in our first and second mortgage loan portfolios, up 8 percent and 11 percent, respectively, in second quarter," said Oman.
     
Wholesale Banking
provides businesses across the United States, predominantly with annual sales in excess of $10 million, with a complete line of commercial, corporate, treasury management, investment, insurance brokerage, capital markets and real estate banking products and services.
     Wholesale Banking reported earnings of $345 million in second quarter 2003. Second quarter revenue was $1.2 billion, up 1 percent from second quarter 2002. Deposits were up 21
 
percent in second quarter 2003 from second quarter 2002. Second quarter expenses were up 3 percent from first quarter 2003. Provision for credit losses in second quarter 2003 declined $27 million from a year ago and $7 million from first quarter 2003.
     "We continued to see trends consistent with prior quarters - including growth in deposits and flat loan demand," said Dave Hoyt, Group EVP, Wholesale Banking. "Our efforts remain focused on new customer acquisition, cross sell with existing relationships and providing outstanding customer service. In the second quarter, areas of strength included our business development efforts for commercial relationships, asset-based lending and deposit growth."
     The asset-based lending group increased revenue 26 percent from the second quarter 2002 and loans grew $1.4 billion over that same period. Foothill Capital Corporation, part of the asset-based lending group, changed its name to Wells Fargo Foothill, Inc. to better leverage the strength of the Wells Fargo brand and our broad array of products and services. The asset-based lending group now has more than $17 billion of direct and managed loan commitments for companies in industries including manufacturing, distribution, technology, retail, media, service, gaming, healthcare and specialty finance.
     Over 123,000 individual users representing 21,200 companies are now using Wells Fargo's business portal, up 62 percent and 41 percent respectively from second quarter 2002. The  portal is intended to make it easier for customers to do business with Wells Fargo. A few indicators that clients are finding it a great way to connect with us include:
Commercial Electronic Office
CEO
     As part of our continuing focus on improving customer service, we offer on-going user training sessions for the business platform. In the second quarter, we reached a milestone with our 5,000 customer completing training. We also became the first bank to provide online training in the second quarter. The new tutorials allow customers to receive interactive online training at their own pace, at a time that is convenient for them.
CEO
th
     
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer and commercial finance, leasing, private label credit cards and dealer financing in 47 states, Canada, and the Caribbean.
 
     "Wells Fargo Financial had an excellent second quarter, with net income of $110 million and a record $1.7 billion increase in receivables," said Dan Porter, chairman and chief executive officer."With year-to-date receivables growth of $3.3 billion, or 20 percent, we surpassed $20 billion in receivables outstanding. This growth was due to outstanding performance by the teams in our consumer and auto finance businesses in the U.S., Canada and the Caribbean."
     A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results will be available at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time through July 18, 2003. Dial 800-642-1687 (domestic) or 706-645-9291 (international). Access code 1619669. The call is also available on the internet at www.wellsfargo.com/ir and .
Recorded Message
www.vcall.com
     Certain amounts for prior quarters have been reclassified to conform with the current financial statement presentation.
     
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
     This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company. Broadly speaking, forward-looking statements consist of descriptions of plans or objectives for future operations, products or services, forecasts of revenues, earnings or other measures of economic performance, and assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. Because forward-looking statements discuss future events or conditions and not historical facts, they
 
often include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "target," "can," "could," "may," "should," "will," "would" or similar expressions. Examples of forward-looking statements in this release include the statement about the expected level of mortgage loans held for sale during the third quarter of 2003, the statement about the likelihood of future losses on equity investments, and various statements about future loan losses and credit quality.
     Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give the Company's expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
     There are several factorsmany beyond the Company's controlthat could cause results to differ significantly from the Company's expectations. Factors such as credit, market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks are described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2003 and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, including information incorporated into the Form 10-K from the Company's 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13 to the Form 10-K. See, for example, Items 2 and 3 of the Form 10-Q and "Financial ReviewRisk Management" included in the 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders and incorporated by reference into the Form 10-K.
     Other factors described in the Form 10-Q and Form 10-K include  business and economic conditions  fiscal and monetary policies  legislation and regulation  disintermediation  competition generally and in light of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act  potential dividend restrictions  market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services  non-banking activities  reliance on other companies for infrastructure components  integration of acquired companies  attracting and retaining key personnel  stock price volatility. See, for example, "Factors That May Affect Future Results" in the Form 10-Q and "Regulation and Supervision" in the Form 10-K.
     Any factor described in this news release, in the Form 10-Q or in the Form 10-K, or in any information incorporated by reference therein, could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
     
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $370 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance from more than 5,600 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and elsewhere internationally.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
LOANS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (1)(2)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (1)(2)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (QUARTER ENDED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS (QUARTER ENDED)
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE LOANS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS (QUARTER ENDED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (1)
      
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION AND SERVICING DATA


