FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20031021080052.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

 
               
               
Third Quarter 2003 Highlights:
For 2002, the first quarter transitional goodwill impairment charge of $276 million, accounted for as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle, is excluded above and in the text and tables on pages 1-9 of this release.
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record diluted earnings per common share of $.92 for third quarter 2003, compared with $.84 in third quarter 2002, up 10 percent. Net income was a record $1.6 billion, up 8 percent from $1.4 billion in third quarter 2002. For the first nine months of 2003, net income was a record $4.6 billion, up 8 percent from the first nine months of 2002, and diluted earnings per share were a record $2.70, up 10 percent from the prior year.
               "Our outstanding third quarter results demonstrate once again that the key to the bottom line is actually the top line," said Chairman and CEO Dick Kovacevich. "Revenue increased 19 percent in the third quarter from the prior year and was up 13 percent year-to-date from the prior year. Achieving nine consecutive quarters of record revenue and profits reflects the hard work of our 139,000 team members in earning more and more of their customers' business. Our consistent double-digit revenue and EPS growth continued to be among the very best not only in the financial services industry but in industry.
any
               Reflecting the strength and consistency of our financial performance, we increased our common stock dividend by 50 percent during the quarter and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. became the only Aaa'-rated bank in the U.S., making us the first U.S. bank to be upgraded by Moody's to their highest credit since 1995. Our strong dividend and Aaa' bank rating validate our long-time business model  a well-diversified, customer-centric financial services company, much more than just a bank. Our ability to deliver superior value to our customers enables us to deliver superior value to all our stakeholders."
Financial Performance
               Diluted earnings per share were $.92, up 10 percent from $.84 in third quarter 2002. "EPS has now grown at a double-digit rate for nine consecutive quarters," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "Moreover, taking advantage of interest rates and equity markets, the Company took a number of strategic actions in the quarter which will benefit future financial performance but which had the effect of reducing third quarter 2003 earnings by $171 million after-tax, or $.10 per share. These actions included repositioning the bond portfolio, retiring $1.8 billion of term debt previously issued at higher costs, contributing approximately 40 percent of our public stock portfolio to the Wells Fargo Foundation (a tax-efficient way of funding this expense), consolidating certain Company-owned facilities and operations to reduce future occupancy and operating costs, and renegotiating certain vendor contracts to reduce on-going equipment and software expenses. The $.10 per share reduction in earnings from these actions, which will benefit future financial performance, includes both revenue and expense impacts and is after tax benefits derived from the public stock donations."
Revenue
               Revenue of $7.2 billion grew $1.1 billion, or 19 percent, from third quarter 2002 and accelerated to 24 percent growth (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Residential mortgage banking revenue accounted for 58 percent of consolidated revenue growth from third quarter 2002, while the strategic actions taken in the quarter reduced third quarter 2003 revenue by $100 million, or 9 percent of the total year-over-year growth. "Apart from the strategic actions and mortgage banking, the rest of our business lines combined grew revenue at a double-digit pace from third quarter 2002 and on a linked quarter basis, reflecting the breadth and strength of our business," said Atkins.
 
Loans
               Average loans of $220.0 billion for third quarter 2003 increased $38.2 billion, or 21 percent, from third quarter 2002. "Consumer demand for credit, particularly home equity, residential first mortgages, other revolving credit and installment loans, remained robust," said Atkins. On a combined basis, average consumer loans and real estate first mortgage loans increased almost $37.4 billion, or 41 percent, from the same period last year. This included 32 percent growth for home equity, 11 percent growth for credit cards, and 28 percent growth for other revolving credit and installment loans. Average commercial loans remained essentially flat, increasing 1 percent from a year ago.
Deposits
               Average core deposits grew $31 billion, or 17 percent, year-over-year. Excluding mortgage escrow deposits, average core deposits grew $20 billion from third quarter 2002, primarily driven by a 32 percent increase in consumer and business noninterest-bearing checking balances. Average interest-bearing core deposits, including interest-bearing checking accounts, CDs, market rate accounts and other savings products, grew 9 percent.
Net Interest Income
               Net interest income grew $513 million, or 14 percent year-over-year, driven by the 21 percent increase in average loans and the 17 percent increase in average core deposits. "Net interest income grew at a double-digit rate, reflecting continued strong growth in consumer loans, mortgages held for sale and noninterest-bearing and market-rate and other savings deposits," said Atkins. On a linked-quarter basis, the net interest margin declined from 5.12 percent to 5.03 percent. The pace of decline in the margin slowed from prior quarters and the margin stabilized toward the end of the quarter, in part due to the actions taken to reposition the bond portfolio and retire higher-cost term debt.
Noninterest Income
               Noninterest income in third quarter 2003 increased $613 million, or 26 percent, from a year ago. Linked-quarter growth accelerated to 37 percent (annualized). The strategic actions taken in the quarter reduced third quarter 2003 noninterest income by $100 million, or 3 percent. "Fee-based income growth was solid across the board," said Atkins. "Residential mortgage banking fees were up $302 million, accounting for half of the overall 26 percent increase in fee income from a year ago. Growth in mortgage fee income reflected an 81 percent increase in originations from a year ago as well as, more recently, growth in servicing fees due to increases in both the size and estimated duration of the servicing portfolio. Trust and investment fees were up 9 percent from a year ago and 29 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis, reflecting the impact of higher equity market values on our assets under management, and our successful efforts to better serve clients by adding more Series 7 licensed bankers and private bankers. Insurance fees increased 8 percent from a year ago, but declined on a linked-quarter basis due to normal seasonality in our crop insurance business. Deposit service fees, credit card fees and credit line fees all exhibited strong growth due to brisk business and successful cross-sell," said Atkins.
Noninterest Expense
               Noninterest expense was $4.4 billion in third quarter 2003, up $993 million, or 29 percent, from a year ago. The strategic actions taken in third quarter 2003 accounted for $233 million, or 23 percent, of the year-over-year growth in expenses. "The strategic actions we took in the quarter are part of our on-going efforts to improve operating efficiency and will
 
reduce future donation expenses, occupancy costs and equipment and software costs. Approximately 47 percent of year-over-year expense growth was due to the 81 percent growth in residential mortgage origination volume compared with a year ago. These mortgage-related expenses, which are tied to production and application volumes, are largely variable costs and would be expected to decline over time if mortgage volumes slow," said Atkins. The third quarter 2003 efficiency ratio was 61 percent. The strategic actions, which reduced revenue by $100 million and increased expenses by $233 million, accounted for approximately 4 percent of this ratio.
Credit Quality
               "Credit quality continued to improve in the third quarter with further reductions in nonperforming assets and further improvements in loss rates," said Chief Credit Officer Dave Munio. Nonperforming assets at September 30, 2003 were $1,723 million (.74 percent of total loans), down $38 million from the prior quarter and down $14 million from a year ago. Net credit losses were $434 million (.78 percent of average total loans), compared with $424 million in second quarter 2003 (.81 percent of average total loans) and $415 million a year ago (.91 percent of average total loans). "Given the substantial growth in our consumer portfolios in the last two years, we are extremely pleased with the continued improvement in overall loss rates  which at quarter end stood at the lowest level since second quarter 2000  although there can be no assurance that loss rates will remain low as these high-growth consumer portfolios season over time. The allowance for loan losses, at $3.9 billion, continued to provide over two times coverage of both nonperforming loans and annualized net charge-offs. We believe that our portfolio diversity and granularity coupled with our culture of disciplined risk management contributed to our stable and satisfactory credit results."
Business Segment Performance
               Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. More financial information about the business segments is on pages 19 and 28.
               
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
 
               Community Banking reported net income of $1,065 million in third quarter 2003, compared with $1,073 million for the same period in 2002. Net income for third quarter 2003 reflected the strategic actions taken in the third quarter, which reduced Community Banking's net income $170 million. Third quarter 2003 net income also reflected an increase in year-over-year earnings of $108 million from residential home mortgages. The balance of Community Banking net income growth from third quarter 2002 was primarily due to the impact of consumer loan and deposit growth, net of the impact of narrower deposit spreads. Community Banking's revenue was up 18 percent from the third quarter of last year. Net interest income increased by $392 million, or 15 percent, compared with third quarter 2002, primarily due to growth in consumer loans, mortgages held for sale and deposits. Noninterest income was up $402 million, or 23 percent, in third quarter 2003, compared with 2002. The strategic actions taken in the quarter reduced noninterest income in third quarter 2003 by $100 million. Noninterest expense increased by $854 million in third quarter 2003, or 33 percent, compared with the same period of 2002. The increase in noninterest income and noninterest expense was due primarily to increased mortgage originations. The strategic actions taken during the quarter accounted for $231 million, or 7 percent, of noninterest expense for third quarter 2003. The provision for loan losses increased by $41 million in third quarter 2003, compared with third quarter 2002, due to 28 percent growth in average loans.
               "Thanks to the dedication of our team, we achieved record retail sales results for the third quarter, with almost 3.2 million core sales, up 9 percent from the same period last year," said John Stumpf, Group EVP, Community Banking. "Sales per platform banker reached an all time quarterly high of over 5 sales per day, and we added more than 300 platform bankers this quarter to better serve our customers. We now have 4.6 million retail online banking customers, 387,000 small business online banking customers, and 1.5 million bill payment and presentment customers enjoying the benefits of these award-winning services. We are installing an additional 1,100 internet-enabled computers so that by year-end, bankers in 2,200 stores can demonstrate these convenient services to our customers on the spot. We received shareholder and regulatory approval for our acquisition of Pacific Northwest Bancorp, and expect to complete the acquisition by the end of this month."
               "The Wells Fargo residential real estate businesses originated $161 billion in the third quarter, surpassing the previous industry record of $135 billion set by Wells Fargo in the second quarter of this year," said Mark Oman, Group EVP, Home and Consumer Finance.
 
"Year to date we have originated an industry record of $399 billion, already surpassing the $333 billion we originated for all of last year. Our goal continues to be to satisfy the housing requirements of all Americans. In addition to being the nation's top mortgage originator for the fourth consecutive year, Wells Fargo Home Mortgage ranks first in originations to minority borrowers, first in originations to low-to-moderate income borrowers and first in originations in low-to-moderate income geographies."
               Wells Fargo's owned mortgage servicing portfolio rose to $674 billion, up 18 percent from a year ago. Reflecting the growth in the servicing portfolio, replacement of lower value, high note rate loans with higher value, low note rate loans and the increase in fair value resulting from the increase in mortgage rates, the carrying value of mortgage servicing rights increased from $3.8 billion at June 30, 2003 (.73 percent of loans serviced for others) to $5.8 billion at September 30, 2003 (1.03 percent of loans serviced for others). The average note rate for the portfolio declined 25 basis points in the quarter to an all-time record low of 5.98 percent at September 30, 2003. "Given the record low note rate and increased duration of the servicing portfolio, we believe the servicing asset has tremendous value at today's interest rate levels," said Oman.
               
Wholesale Banking
provides businesses across the United States, predominantly with annual sales in excess of $10 million, with a complete line of commercial, corporate, treasury management, investment, insurance brokerage, capital markets and real estate banking products and services.
               Wholesale Banking reported earnings of $372 million in third quarter 2003, up 31 percent from third quarter 2002. Third quarter revenue was $1.3 billion, up 18 percent from third quarter 2002. Third quarter expenses were up 12 percent from third quarter 2002. Reflecting a relatively stable credit environment, nonperforming assets declined 15 percent, from $813 million at September 30, 2002 to $692 million at September 30, 2003. The provision for loan losses in third quarter 2003 declined $6 million from a year ago.
               "Our team members delivered record quarterly earnings and outstanding results for Wholesale Banking despite continued flat loan demand," said Dave Hoyt, Group EVP, Wholesale Banking. To leverage the strength of the Wells Fargo brand, Wholesale Banking's
 
Century Business Credit unit, part of the asset-based lending group, changed its name to Wells Fargo Century, Inc. It is one of the largest bank-owned factoring companies in the U.S. and provides factoring, commercial and trade finance to middle-market businesses across the country.
               "In addition to new business acquisition and a continued focus on delivering outstanding customer service," said Hoyt, "one of our primary goals is to improve cross-sell with existing relationships. To achieve this, we've focused on making it easier for customers to bring us more of their business and on helping customers realize efficiencies. Our progress is being recognized in the marketplace. magazine named Wells Fargo the Best Commercial Internet Bank in the United States. We also were named the best integrated Web site, for both consumer and corporate banking and received Forrester Research's award for the best cross-channel integration capabilities. Wells Fargo Institutional Trust Services was ranked number two in customer satisfaction in a global list of top rated 401(k) plan administrators and number five as a mutual fund manager, according to a survey by 401kExchange, a research and marketing firm."
Global Finance
               Hoyt said Wholesale Banking continues to improve the breadth and depth of its product offering to satisfy all the financial services needs of its customers. During the quarter, Wells Fargo agreed to acquire Benson Associates, LLC, a Portland, Oregon-based asset-management company with $1.3 billion in equity assets under management and Wells Fargo subsidiary Acordia, Inc., America's largest bank-owned insurance brokerage, acquired four insurance brokerages in Texas, Nebraska and Pennsylvania.
               
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer and commercial finance, leasing, private label credit cards and dealer financing in 47 states, Canada, and the Caribbean.
               "Wells Fargo Financial's third quarter net income increased 32 percent over the same period last year, to $121 million," said Mark Oman, Group EVP, Home and Consumer Finance. "This very strong growth reflected the benefits of the changes made to the business models which allowed the point-of-sale team members to focus on their core capability of selling, supported by strong centralized collections, operations, analytics and controls. The changes to the business model fueled growth in the real estate and auto markets, which increased receivables to $22.4 billion at September 30, 2003." Receivables increased
 
$2.2 billion in the third quarter and $5.5 billion during the first nine months of 2003 from the same periods of 2002.
Recorded Message
               A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results will be available today at 5:30 a.m. Pacific time through Friday, October 24 at Midnight, Pacific Time. Dial 800-642-1687 (domestic) or 706-645-9291 (international). Access code 3141348. The call is also available on the internet at and .
www.wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/earnings
www.vcall.com
 
               Certain amounts for prior quarters have been reclassified to conform with the current financial statement presentation.
               
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
               This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company. Forward-looking statements consist of descriptions of plans or objectives for future operations, products or services, forecasts of revenues, earnings or other measures of economic performance, and assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. Because forward-looking statements discuss future events or conditions and not historical facts, they often include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "target," "can," "could," "may," "should," "will," "would" or similar expressions. Examples of forward-looking statements in this release are the statements about the expected benefits of the strategic actions taken in the third quarter 2003 and various statements about future credit losses and credit quality.
               Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give the Company's expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
               There are several factorsmany beyond the Company's controlthat could cause results to differ significantly from the Company's expectations. Factors such as credit, market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks are described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003 and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, including information incorporated into the Form 10-K from the Company's 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13 to the Form 10-K. See, for example, Items 2 and 3 of the Form 10-Q and "Financial ReviewRisk Management" included in the 2002 Annual Report to Stockholders and incorporated by reference into the Form 10-K.
               Other factors described in the Form 10-Q and Form 10-K include  business and economic conditions  fiscal and monetary policies  legislation and regulation  disintermediation  competition generally and in light of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act 
 
potential dividend restrictions  market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services  non-banking activities  reliance on other companies for infrastructure components  integration of acquired companies  attracting and retaining key personnel  stock price volatility. See, for example, "Factors That May Affect Future Results" in the Form 10-Q and "Regulation and Supervision" in the Form 10-K.
               Any factor described in this news release, in the Form 10-Q or in the Form 10-K, or in any information incorporated by reference therein, could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


