FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20030305122514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 5, 2003, Wells Fargo & Company issued its Basket Linked Notes due April 15, 2009. The purpose of this Current Report is to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the form of the Note related to such issuance.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 5, 2003
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
 
REGISTERED NO. 1
 
 
 
 
 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, an amount equal to the Maturity Payment Amount (as defined below), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, on April 15, 2009. This Security shall not bear any interest.
 
Any payments on this Security at Maturity will be made against presentation of this Security at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota.
 
Determination of Maturity Payment Amount
 
"Maturity Payment Amount" shall mean, for each $1,000 principal amount of this Security, the greater of (i) $1,062.90 and (ii) the Alternative Redemption Amount.
 
Set forth below are certain defined terms used in this Security in connection with the determination of the Maturity Payment Amount.
 
"Alternative Redemption Amount" shall mean, for each $1,000 principal amount of this Security, an amount equal to the sum of $1,000 and the product of:
 
Initial Basket Level
 
"Average Basket Level" shall mean, except as set forth in the next sentence, the arithmetic average of the Closing Levels of the Basket on the last Trading Day of each of the 73 months after February 2003, starting from and including March 2003 and ending at and including March 2009. If the Calculation Agent determines that one or more Market Disruption Events have occurred with respect to any Common Stock included in the Basket on any of these dates, the Calculation Agent will determine the Closing Level for such date by reference to the Closing Level of the Basket on the next Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event; , that if a Market Disruption Event occurs on the last Trading Day of March 2009 and the next Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event has not occurred on or prior to April 10, 2009, the Calculation Agent will determine the Average Basket Level without including a Closing Level for March 2009 and the Average Basket Level will be based on the Closing Levels on 72 monthly dates.
provided, however
 
"Basket" shall mean the basket composed of the Common Stocks.
 
"Business Day" is a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions in Minneapolis, Minnesota or New York, New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
 
"Calculation Agency Agreement" shall mean the Calculation Agency Agreement dated as of March 5, 2003 between the Company and the Calculation Agent, as amended from time to time.
 
"Calculation Agent" shall mean the Person that has entered into the Calculation Agency Agreement with the Company providing for, among other things, the determination of the Average Basket Level, the Alternative Redemption Amount, and the Maturity Payment Amount, which term shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include its successors under such Calculation Agency Agreement. The initial Calculation Agent shall be Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. Pursuant to the Calculation Agency Agreement, the Company may appoint a different Calculation Agent from time to time after the original issuance date of the Securities of this
 
 
series without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series and without notifying the Holders of the Securities of this series.
 
"Closing Level" of the Basket shall mean, on any date, (i) the sum of the products resulting from multiplying the Closing Price for each Common Stock included in the Basket on such date by the then current Multiplier of such Common Stock plus (ii) distributions made to holders of the Common Stocks included in the Basket from time to time as a result of certain extraordinary corporate transactions involving the issuers of those Common Stocks in the manner and to the extent set forth in "Adjustments to Securities that Comprise the Basket."
 
"Closing Price" shall mean with respect to any Common Stock on any day (1) if the Common Stock is listed on a national securities exchange on that date, the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on that date on the principal United States exchange on which the security is listed or admitted to trading, (2) if the Common Stock is not listed on a national securities exchange on that date, or if the closing sale price or last reported sale price is not obtainable (even if the security is listed or admitted to trading on such exchange), and the security is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, the closing bid price or, if no closing bid price is reported, the last reported bid price on that date as reported on the Nasdaq, and (3) if the security is not quoted on the Nasdaq on that date or, if the closing bid price or last reported bid price is not obtainable (even if the security is quoted on the Nasdaq), the last quoted bid price for the security in the over the counter market on that date as reported by the OTC Bulletin Board, the National Quotation Bureau, or a similar organization. If no sale price is available pursuant to clauses (1), (2) or (3) above, the Closing Price on any date will be the arithmetic mean, as determined by the Calculation Agent, of the bid prices of the Common Stock obtained from as many dealers in such Common Stock (which may include any subsidiaries or affiliates of the Company), but not exceeding three such dealers, as will make such bid prices available to the Calculation Agent. A security "quoted on the Nasdaq National Market" will include a security included for listing or quotation in any successor to such system and the term "OTC Bulletin Board" will include any successor to such service.
 
"Common Stock(s)" shall mean the equity securities included in the Basket from time to time and shall initially be the common stocks of the following sixteen companies: Altria Group, Inc.; Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; The Coca-Cola Company; Colgate-Palmolive Company; The Gillette Company; H. J. Heinz Company; International Business Machines Corporation; Limited Brands, Inc.; Merck & Co., Inc.; Oracle Corporation; PepsiCo, Inc.; Pfizer Inc.; The Procter & Gamble Company; Sara Lee Corporation; and SBC Communications Inc. "Common Stock(s)" also refers to any other equity securities included in the Basket after the original issuance date of the Securities of this series as a result of certain extraordinary corporate transactions involving such companies in the manner and to the extent set forth in "Adjustments to Securities that Comprise the Basket."
 
"Initial Basket Level" shall mean $1,000.
 
 
A "Market Disruption Event" with respect to a Common Stock included in the Basket will occur on any day if the Calculation Agent determines any of the following:
 
 
 
 
For purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred:
 
 
 
 
will constitute a Market Disruption Event notwithstanding that the suspension or material limitation is less than two hours;
 
 
 
 
"Multiplier," as it relates to a particular Common Stock, shall mean the number of shares or other units, including American Depositary Receipts ("ADRs") (or fraction of a share or other unit expressed as a decimal), of such Common Stock included in the Basket. Each Multiplier will be adjusted in the manner and to the extent set forth in "Adjustments to Securities that Comprise the Basket." The initial Multiplier for each Common Stock included in the Basket as of the original issuance date of the Securities of this series is as follows:
 
 
"Participation Rate" means .98.
 
"Stated Maturity Date" shall mean April 15, 2009.
 
"Trading Day" shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is a day on which The New York Stock Exchange, The Nasdaq National Market and the American Stock Exchange are open for trading.
 
Adjustments to Securities that Comprise the Basket
 
Adjustments to Common Stocks included in the Basket will be made by adjusting the Multiplier then in effect for the Common Stocks, by adding new Common Stocks or cash and/or by removing current Common Stocks in the circumstances described below. For purposes of these adjustments, except as noted below, ADRs are treated like Common Stock if a comparable adjustment to the foreign shares underlying the ADRs is made pursuant to the terms of the depositary arrangement for the ADRs or if holders of ADRs are entitled to receive property in respect of the underlying foreign share.
 
 
 
 
 
 
first London Business Day after the day on which holders receive the cash consideration until the Stated Maturity Date. Interest will accrue at a rate equal to LIBOR with a term corresponding to the interest accrual period stated in the preceding sentence. A "London Business Day" means any day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To the extent that, after the expiration of such rights or warrants, such issuer's Common Stock offered thereby has not been delivered, the Multiplier for such Common Stock will be further adjusted to equal the Multiplier which would have been in effect had such adjustment for the issuance of such rights or warrants been made upon the basis of delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered.
 
 
 
 
will accrue at a rate equal to LIBOR with a term corresponding to the interest accrual period stated in the preceding sentence.
 
 
 
 
If more than one event occurs that requires adjustment to a particular Multiplier, the Calculation Agent will adjust the Multiplier in the order in which each event occurs, and on a cumulative basis. Thus, after adjusting the Multiplier for the first event, the Calculation Agent will then adjust the Multiplier for the second event. The second adjustment will be made to the Multiplier after adjustment is made for the first event, and so on for each subsequent event.
 
No adjustment to a Multiplier will be required other than those specified above. The Calculation Agent may, at its sole discretion, make additional adjustments in other circumstances where the Calculation Agent determines that it is appropriate to reflect those changes to ensure an equitable result.
 
 
No adjustments of any Multiplier of a Common Stock will be required unless the adjustment would require a change of at least 0.1% in the Multiplier then in effect. The Multiplier resulting from any of the adjustments specified above will be rounded up or down to the nearest 0.0001, with 0.00005 being rounded downward.
 
Within 20 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires an adjustment to a Multiplier, or, if later, within 20 Business Days following the date on which the Company became aware of the occurrence, the Company will provide written notice to the Trustee, which will provide notice to the Holders of the occurrence of the event, and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth the adjustment made to that Multiplier.
 
Calculation Agent
 
The Calculation Agent will determine the Maturity Payment Amount. In addition, the Calculation Agent will determine the Closing Levels of the Basket, if adjustments to the Multipliers of the Common Stocks included in the Basket are required under the circumstances described in this Security, the fair market value of certain distributions made with respect to the Common Stocks included in the Basket, and whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred.
 
The Company covenants that, so long as any of the Securities of this series are Outstanding, there shall at all times be a Calculation Agent (which shall be a broker-dealer, bank or other financial institution) with respect to the Securities of this series.
 
All determinations made by the Calculation Agent with respect to the Securities of this series will be at the sole discretion of the Calculation Agent and, in the absence of manifest error, will be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Company and the Holders of the Securities of this series. Except as otherwise provided under "Adjustments to Securities that Comprise the Basket," all percentages and other amounts resulting from any calculation with respect to the Securities of this series will be rounded at the Calculation Agent's discretion.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature or its duly authorized agent under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
DATED:
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the
series designated therein described
in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
CITIBANK, N.A.,
    as Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of July 21, 1999, as amended or supplemented from time to time (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $69,062,000; , that the Company may, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series, issue additional Securities with the same terms as the Securities of this series, and such additional Securities shall be considered part of the same series under the Indenture as the Securities of this series.
provided, however
 
The Securities of this series are not subject to redemption at the option of the Company or repayment at the option of the Holder hereof prior to April 15, 2009. The Securities will not be entitled to any sinking fund.
 
The Company agrees, to the extent permitted by law, not to voluntarily claim the benefits of any laws concerning usurious rates of interest against a Holder of Securities of this series.
 
If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the Maturity Payment Amount (calculated as set forth in the next sentence) of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The amount payable to the Holder hereof upon any acceleration permitted under the Indenture will be equal to the Maturity Payment Amount hereof calculated as though the date of acceleration was the Stated Maturity Date and the date for determining the Closing Level for the last measurement period; , if such date is not a Trading Day or if a Market Disruption Event has occurred on such date, the next Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event will be deemed to be the date for determining the Closing Level for the last measurement period. Upon payment of the amount so declared due and payable, all of the Company's obligations in respect of payment of the Maturity Payment Amount shall terminate. The Securities of this series will not bear a default rate of interest after the occurrence of an Event of Default or an acceleration under the Indenture.
provided, however
 
 
The Company agrees, and by acceptance of a beneficial ownership interest in this Security each beneficial owner of this Security will be deemed to have agreed, for United States federal income tax purposes (i) to treat this Security as a single debt instrument subject to the Treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments, (ii) to report all income (or loss) with respect to this Security according to those Treasury regulations, and (iii) to be bound by the Company's determination of the "comparable yield" and the "projected payment schedule" (within the meaning of such Treasury regulations) for this Security, unless such beneficial owner timely discloses and justifies in its federal income tax return the use of a different comparable yield and projected payment schedule.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected, acting together. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time Outstanding affected by certain provisions of the Indenture, acting together, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with those provisions of the Indenture. Certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences may be waived under the Indenture by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series. Solely for the purpose of determining whether any consent, waiver, notice or other action or Act to be taken or given by the Holders of Securities pursuant to the Indenture has been given or taken by the Holders of Outstanding Securities in the requisite aggregate principal amount, the principal amount of this Security will be deemed to be equal to the amount set forth on the face hereof as the "Principal Amount" hereof. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
Section 403 and Article Fifteen of the Indenture and the provisions of clause (ii) of Section 401(1)(B) of the Indenture, relating to defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, shall not apply to this Security. The remaining provisions of Section 401 of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
 
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Security at the office or agency of the Company in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota, a new Security or Securities of this series in authorized denominations for an equal aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange herefor, as provided in the Indenture and subject to the limitations provided therein and to the limitations described below, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
 
This Security is exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form only if (x) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Security or if at any time the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and a successor depositary is not appointed within
 
 
90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form and notifies the Trustee thereof or (z) an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing. If this Security is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence, it shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form, having the same terms and of authorized denominations aggregating a like amount.
 
This Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor of the Depositary or a nominee of such successor. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders hereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the Maturity Payment Amount at the times and place, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed, except as otherwise provided in this Security.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the Maturity Payment Amount, or for any claim based on this Security, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.
 
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise defined in this Security.
 
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
 
 
 
Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act
 
 
(State)
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
 
the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,
 
Please Insert Social Security or
Other Identifying Number of Assignee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the within Security of WELLS FARGO & COMPANY and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint attorney to transfer the said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                                        
 
 
 
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 


