FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20041027081655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01
Other Events
 
On October 26, 2004, the Company announced that it had commenced a solicitation of consents to an amendment to the indenture (the "Indenture") under which the Company's Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2033 (the "Debentures") were issued. The press release announcing the Company's consent solicitation is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On October 13, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ratified the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force at its September 29-30 and June 30-July 1 meetings with respect to Issue No. 04-8, ("EITF 04-8"). This consensus would require instruments with contingent conversion features that are based on the market price of an entity's own stock, such as the Debentures in their current form, to be included in the computation of diluted earnings per share, even though the market trigger has not been met. EITF 04-8 becomes effective for periods ending after December 15, 2004, and must be applied retroactively by restating any periods during which the instruments were outstanding. However, the determination of the dilutive effect upon adoption of EITF 04-8, if any, is based on the form of the instrument that exists at December 31, 2004.
The Effect of Contingently Convertible Instruments on Diluted Earnings Per Share
 
Pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Company has the right to elect to deliver, in lieu of common stock, cash or a combination of cash and common stock upon conversion of the Debentures. However, the Indenture currently prohibits the Company from paying cash upon a conversion of the Debentures if an event of default, as defined in the Indenture, has occurred and is continuing at that time. The Company is therefore seeking consents from holders of the Debentures to amend the Indenture to eliminate this prohibition. After effectiveness of the amendment, the Company will make an irrevocable election under the Indenture before the end of 2004 that will obligate the Company to deliver, upon conversion of the Debentures, (i) cash in an amount equal to the lesser of the conversion value of the Debentures as determined under the Indenture or the accreted principal amount of the Debentures, and (ii) cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for any conversion value of the Debentures in excess of such accreted principal amount. As a result of these actions, none of the shares of common stock underlying the Debentures currently would be considered outstanding for purposes of calculating earnings per share under EITF 04-8.
 
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements about the Company. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give the Company's expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company does not undertake to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. The Company's 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K and June 30, 2004 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission describe factors that could cause actual results to differ from expectations.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on October 27, 2004.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NewsRelease
Corporate Communications
 
 
 
SAN FRANCISCO, October 27, 2004 - Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) announced today that it has commenced a solicitation of consents to an amendment to the indenture related to its Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2033 (CUSIP Nos. 949746FA4 and 949746EZ0) (the "Debentures").
 
Pursuant to the terms of the indenture under which the Debentures were issued, the Company generally has the right to elect to deliver, in lieu of common stock, cash or a combination of cash and common stock upon a conversion of the Debentures. However, the indenture currently prohibits the Company from paying cash upon a conversion of the Debentures if an event of default, as defined in the indenture, exists at that time. The Company is seeking consents from holders of the Debentures to amend the indenture to eliminate this prohibition.
The record date for the consent solicitation is 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on October 26, 2004. The consent solicitation will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on November 8, 2004, unless extended. The Company is offering a consent fee of $2.50 per $1,000 original principal amount of the Debentures to each holder of record as of the record date who has delivered (and has not revoked) a valid consent prior to the expiration of the consent solicitation. The Company's obligation to accept consents and pay the consent fee is conditioned, among other things, on the receipt of consents from holders of at least a majority in original principal amount of the outstanding Debentures.
 
For a complete statement of the terms and conditions of the consent solicitation and the amendment to the indenture, holders of the Debentures should refer to the Consent Solicitation Statement dated October 27, 2004, which is being sent to all holders of record of the Debentures as of the record date. Questions from holders regarding the consent solicitation or requests for additional copies of the Consent Solicitation Statement, the Letter of Consent or other related documents should be directed to Global Bondholder Services Corporation, the Information Agent for the consent solicitation, at (866) 389-1500 or the joint solicitation agents for the consent solicitation, Goldman, Sachs & Co. at (800) 828-3182, Merrill Lynch & Co. at (888) 654-8637 or Morgan Stanley at (800) 624-1808.
 
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $422 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance to more than 23 million customers from more than 6,000 stores, the internet (wellsfargo.com) and other distribution channels across North America and elsewhere internationally.


