FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20040511160535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibits are filed herewith in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-103711) filed by Wells Fargo & Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
On April 29, 2004, Wells Fargo & Company issued its Notes Linked to the Common Stock of Station Casinos, Inc. due April 29, 2014. On April 30, 2004, Wells Fargo & Company issued its Principal Protected Minimum Return Notes Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average
SM
due May 5, 2011.
 
The purpose of this Current Report is to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the form of the Note related to each such issuance and the consent of Faegre & Benson LLP, Wells Fargo & Company's special tax counsel, to the use of its name under the caption "United States Federal Income Tax Consequences" in the prospectus supplement related to each such issuance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on May 11, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 4.1
 
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
DTC
 
 
 
 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, an amount equal to the Maturity Payment Amount (as defined below), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, on the Stated Maturity Date (as defined below) (unless this Security or a portion hereof has been previously called for redemption or the Holder hereof has previously requested repayment of this Security or a portion hereof) and to pay interest on the Face Amount of this Security from April 29, 2004 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for semi-annually on April 29 and October 29 of each year commencing October 29, 2004 at the rate of 0.25% per annum, until the Maturity Payment Amount (or the Redemption Price or the Repayment Price, as the case may be) is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 15 or October 15 (whether or not a Business Day, as defined below), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. If an Interest Payment Date is not a Business Day, interest on this Security shall be payable on the next day that is a Business Day, with the same force and effect as if made on such Interest Payment Date, and without any interest or other payment with respect to the delay. "" as used hereinabove is a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions in Minneapolis, Minnesota or New York, New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed. References in this Security to the "" of this Security or the Securities of this series shall mean the amount set forth on the face of such Security or Securities as its or their "Face Amount."
Company
Business Day
Face Amount
Any interest not punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
 
Payment of interest on this Security will be made in immediately available funds at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that, at the option of the Company, payment of interest may be paid by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto at such Person's last address as it appears in the Security Register or by wire transfer to such account as may have been designated by such Person. Payment of the Maturity Payment Amount, the Redemption Price and the Repayment Price and interest on this Security at Maturity will be made against presentation of this Security at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota.
 
Determination of Maturity Payment Amount
 
"" shall mean, for each $1,000 Face Amount of this Security, the greater of (i) $1,000 and (ii) the Alternative Payment Amount, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the Stated Maturity Date.
Maturity Payment Amount
 
Set forth below are certain defined terms used in this Security in connection with the determination of the Maturity Payment Amount.
 
The "" shall mean, for each $1,000 Face Amount of this Security, the product of (i) the Settlement Value and (ii) the Multiplier, determined in each case as of the Valuation Date.
Alternative Payment Amount
 
The "" of the Index Stock on any day will be (1) if the Index Stock is listed on a national securities exchange on that date, the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on that date on the principal United States exchange on which the security is listed or admitted to trading, (2) if the Index Stock is not listed on a national securities exchange on that date, or if the closing sale price or last reported sale price is not obtainable (even if the security is listed or admitted to trading on such exchange), and the security is quoted on the Nasdaq National Market, the closing bid price or, if no closing bid price is reported, the last reported bid price on that date as reported on the Nasdaq, and (3) if the Index Stock is not quoted on the Nasdaq on that date or, if the closing bid price or last reported bid price is not obtainable (even if the Index Stock is quoted on the Nasdaq), the last quoted bid price for the Index Stock in the over the counter market on that date as reported by the OTC
Closing Price
 
Bulletin Board, the National Quotation Bureau, or a similar organization. If no sale price is available pursuant to clauses (1), (2) or (3) above, the Closing Price on any date will be the arithmetic mean, as determined by the Company, of the bid prices of the Index Stock obtained from as many dealers in such Index Stock (which may include any of the subsidiaries or affiliates of the Company), but not exceeding three such dealers, as will make such bid prices available to the Company. A security "" will include a security included for listing or quotation in any successor to such system and the term "" will include any successor to such service.
quoted on the Nasdaq National Market
OTC Bulletin Board
 
"" shall mean the common stock of Station Casinos, Inc. (the ""). References to the Index Stock and to the Underlying Company in this Security are references to the common stock of Station Casinos, Inc. as well as any other equity securities included in the calculation of the Settlement Value, and the issuers thereof, as a result of certain extraordinary corporate transactions involving Station Casinos, Inc. as described under "Adjustments to the Multiplier; Settlement Property," unless the context indicates otherwise.
Index Stock
Underlying Company
 
A "" with respect to the Index Stock will occur on any day if the Company determines any of the following:
Market Disruption Event
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred:
 
 
 
The initial "" is 17.606577. The Multiplier will be adjusted in the manner set forth under "Adjustments to the Multiplier; Settlement Property."
Multiplier
 
The "" as of a particular Trading Day will be the Closing Price of the Index Stock on such Trading Day. In addition, if any other equity securities, cash or other property are received by a holder of the Index Stock as a result of certain extraordinary corporate transactions (the ""), the Settlement Value will include the value of such Settlement Property determined as set forth under "Adjustments to the Multiplier; Settlement Property."
Settlement Value
Settlement Property
 
"" shall mean April 29, 2014; provided, however, that if a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on April 24, 2014, the Stated Maturity Date will be postponed until three Business Days after the Valuation Date.
Stated Maturity Date
 
A "" is each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is a day on which the primary exchange or trading system on which the Index Stock is traded and the primary exchange or trading system on which futures and options contracts relating to the Index Stock are traded are open for trading.
Trading Day
 
The "" is April 24, 2014; provided, however, that if a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on April 24, 2014, the Valuation Date will be postponed to the next Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event.
Valuation Date
 
Adjustments to the Multiplier; Settlement Property
 
No adjustment to the Multiplier or to the Settlement Value will be required other than those specified below. The Company may, at its sole discretion, make additional adjustments in other circumstances where it determines that it is appropriate to reflect those changes to ensure an equitable result.
 
Adjustments to the Multiplier and to the Settlement Value will be made by adjusting the Multiplier then in effect, by adding new securities or cash and/or by removing current securities in the circumstances described below. The Multiplier for any security included in the calculation of the Settlement Value will represent the number of those securities included in the calculation of the Settlement Value. For purposes of these adjustments, except as noted below, American Depositary Receipts ("") are treated like common stock if a comparable adjustment to the foreign shares underlying the ADRs is made pursuant to the terms of the depositary arrangement for the ADRs or if holders of ADRs are entitled to receive property in respect of the underlying foreign share.
ADRs
 
Extraordinary Corporate Transactions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
amount of cash equal to the product of the Multiplier and such fair market value, and the Index Stock will not be included in the calculation of the Settlement Value and the Multiplier will not otherwise be used to calculate the amounts payable at Maturity. The Settlement Property will also include accrued interest on that amount. Interest will accrue beginning on the first London business day after the day on which the holders receive the securities or other property until Maturity. Interest will accrue at a rate equal to LIBOR with a term corresponding to the interest accrual period stated in the preceding sentence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Dividends
 
If, during the period from, but excluding, April 26, 2004 to the Valuation Date, the Redemption Valuation Date (as defined on the reverse hereof) or the Repayment Valuation Date (as defined on the reverse hereof), as the case may be, holders of record of the Index Stock are entitled to receive a cash dividend (other than an extraordinary cash dividend, as determined by the Company in its good faith judgment) from the Underlying Company and the amount of the dividend is less than the Base Dividend (as defined below) per share, including if the Underlying Company fails to declare or make a quarterly dividend payment on the Index Stock (as determined by the Company in its sole and absolute discretion), the Multiplier shall be reduced, effective at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the ex-dividend date for the dividend (such business day, the ""), so that the new Multiplier equals the product of (1) the then current Multiplier and (2) one minus the quotient of (A) the Base Dividend minus the New Dividend and (B) the Closing Price (as defined below). In no event, however, will the Multiplier be reduced to less than zero. The "" is $0.175, subject to adjustment in the event of certain events affecting the Index Stock, such as stock splits, reverse stock splits or reclassifications, as determined by the Company, in its good faith judgment. The "" shall be the dividend per share of the Index Stock, which may be zero, giving rise to the adjustment. For purposes of this adjustment only, the "" shall be the per share Closing Price of the Index Stock on the Effective Adjustment Date
Effective Adjustment Date
Base Dividend
New Dividend
Closing Price
 
for the Index Stock dividend giving rise to the adjustment. If the Company determines in its sole and absolute discretion that the Underlying Company has failed to declare or make a quarterly dividend payment, the Effective Adjustment Date for adjusting the Multiplier will be the first Business Day immediately following the 27th day of each March, June, September or December, as applicable, and the Valuation Date, the Redemption Valuation Date or the Repayment Valuation Date, as the case may be.
 
If, during the period from, but excluding, April 26, 2004 to the Valuation Date, the Redemption Valuation Date or the Repayment Valuation Date, as the case may be, holders of record of the Index Stock are entitled to receive a cash dividend (other than an extraordinary cash dividend, as determined by the Company in its good faith judgment) from the Underlying Company and the amount of the dividend is more than the Base Dividend per share, the Multiplier shall be increased, effective at the close of business on the Effective Adjustment Date, so that the new Multiplier equals the product of (1) the then current Multiplier and (2) one plus the quotient of (A) the New Dividend minus the Base Dividend and (B) the Closing Price.
 
General Provisions
 
If more than one event occurs that requires adjustment to the Multiplier, the Company will adjust the Multiplier in the order in which each event occurs, and on a cumulative basis. Thus, after adjusting the Multiplier for the first event, the Company will then adjust the Multiplier for the second event. The second adjustment will be made to the Multiplier after adjustment is made for the first event, and so on for each subsequent event.
 
No adjustments of the Multiplier will be required unless the adjustment would require a change of at least 0.1% in the Multiplier then in effect. The Multiplier resulting from any of the adjustments specified above will be rounded up or down to the nearest 0.000001, with 0.0000005 being rounded downward.
 
Within 30 Business Days following the occurrence of an event that requires an adjustment to the Multiplier, or, if later, within 30 Business Days following the date on which the Company becomes aware of the occurrence, the Company will provide written notice to the Trustee, which will provide notice to the Holders of the Securities of this series of the occurrence of the event, and a statement in reasonable detail setting forth the adjustment made to the Multiplier.
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature or its duly authorized agent under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
 
[SEAL]
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of the
series designated therein described
in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the ""), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of July 21, 1999, as amended or supplemented from time to time (herein called the ""), between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate Face Amount to $63,000,000; , that the Company may, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series, issue additional Securities with the same terms as the Securities of this series, and such additional Securities shall be considered part of the same series under the Indenture as the Securities of this series.
Securities
Indenture
Trustee
provided, however
 
The Securities of this series will not be entitled to any sinking fund.
 
The Holder hereof may request that the Company repay this Security, in whole or in part. Such request may be made at any time up to and including the earlier of (i) the Business Day before the date the Company gives notice of its intention to redeem this Security or any portion hereof and (ii) eight Business Days before April 29, 2014. The "" for each $1,000 Face Amount of this Security on any Repayment Date will be equal to the product of (i) the Settlement Value and (ii) the Multiplier, determined in each case as of the Repayment Valuation Date, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, such Repayment Date. The "" with respect to any request for repayment will be the eighth Business Day after the date on which the Company receives the election referred to below, unless payment is postponed because a Market Disruption Event occurs. The "" for purposes of calculating the Repayment Price for a Repayment Date will be the third Trading Day prior to such Repayment Date; provided, however, that if a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on such day, the Repayment Valuation Date will be the next Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event and such Repayment Date will be postponed to three Business Days after the Repayment Valuation Date.
Repayment Price
Repayment Date
Repayment Valuation Date
 
In order for this Security to be repaid, the Paying Agent must receive this Security with the form entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" on the reverse of this Security duly completed, or a telegram, facsimile transmission or a letter from a member of a national securities exchange or
 
a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or trust company in the United States, setting forth:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The repayment option may be exercised by the Holder of this Security for less than the entire Face Amount of this Security, but in that event the Face Amount of this Security remaining outstanding after repayment must be in an authorized denomination.
 
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Repayment Price, on and after a Repayment Date interest will cease to accrue on this Security or portions thereof for which repayment has been requested.
 
The Securities of this series are redeemable at the option of the Company at any time on or after April 26, 2007 to and including April 29, 2014, in whole or in part. The "" for each $1,000 Face Amount of this Security on any Redemption Date will be equal to the greater of (A) $1,000 and (B) the product of (i) the Settlement Value and (ii) the Multiplier, determined in each case as of the Redemption Valuation Date, plus, in either case, accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, such Redemption Date. The "" for purposes of calculating the Redemption Price for a redemption will be the date the Company gives notice to the Holders of the Securities of this series of such redemption; provided, however, that if a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on such date, the Redemption Valuation Date will be the next Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event.
Redemption Price
Redemption Valuation Date
 
Notice of any redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the applicable Redemption Date to each Holder of the Securities of this series to be redeemed.
 
Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after a Redemption Date interest will cease to accrue on this Security or portion thereof called for redemption.
 
The Company agrees, to the extent permitted by law, not to voluntarily claim the benefits of any laws concerning usurious rates of interest against a Holder of Securities of this series.
 
If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the Maturity Payment Amount (calculated as set forth in the next sentence) of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The amount payable to the Holder hereof upon any acceleration permitted under the Indenture will be equal to the Maturity Payment Amount hereof calculated as though the date of acceleration was Valuation Date. Upon payment of the amount so declared due and payable, all of the Company's obligations in respect of payment of the Maturity Payment Amount shall terminate. The Securities of this series will not bear a default rate of interest after the occurrence of an Event of Default or an acceleration under the Indenture.
 
The Company agrees, and by acceptance of a beneficial ownership interest in this Security each beneficial owner of this Security will be deemed to have agreed, for United States federal income tax purposes (i) to treat this Security as a single debt instrument subject to the Treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments, (ii) to report all income (or loss) with respect to this Security according to those Treasury regulations, and (iii) to be bound by the Company's determination of the "comparable yield" and the "projected payment schedule" (within the meaning of such Treasury regulations) for this Security, unless such beneficial owner timely discloses and justifies in its federal income tax return the use of a different comparable yield and projected payment schedule.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected, acting together. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time Outstanding affected by certain provisions of the Indenture, acting together, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with those provisions of the Indenture. Certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences may be waived under the Indenture by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series. Solely for the purpose of determining whether any consent, waiver, notice or other action or Act to be taken or given by the Holders of Securities pursuant to the Indenture has been given or taken by the Holders of Outstanding Securities in the requisite aggregate principal amount, the principal amount of this Security will be deemed to be equal to the amount set forth on the face hereof as the "Face Amount" hereof. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
Section 403 and Article Fifteen of the Indenture and the provisions of clause (ii) of Section 401(1)(B) of the Indenture, relating to defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, shall not apply to this Security. The remaining provisions of Section 401 of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
 
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Security at the office or agency of the Company in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota, a new Security or Securities of this series in authorized denominations for an equal aggregate Face Amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange herefor, as provided in the Indenture and subject to the limitations provided therein and to the limitations described below, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
 
This Security is exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form only if (x) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Security or if at any time the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and a successor depositary is not appointed within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form and notifies the Trustee thereof or (z) an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing. If this Security is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence, it shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form, having the same terms and of authorized denominations aggregating a like amount.
 
This Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor of the Depositary or a nominee of such successor. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders hereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the interest and the Maturity Payment Amount (or the Redemption Price or the Repayment Price, as the case may be) at the times and place, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed, except as otherwise provided in this Security.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the interest or the Maturity Payment Amount (or the Redemption Price or the Repayment Price, as the case may be), or for any claim based on this Security, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any
 
constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.
 
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise defined in this Security.
 
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned hereby irrevocably requests and instructs the Company to repay the within Security (or the portion thereof specified below), pursuant to its terms, on the Repayment Date specified in the within Security, at the Repayment Price specified in the within Security, to the undersigned, ___________________________________________________________________________________________, at ___________________________________________________________________________________________(please print or typewrite name and address of the undersigned).
 
For this option to elect repayment to be effective, the Company must receive, at the address of the Paying Agent set forth below or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holder of the within Security, either (i) this Security with this "Option to Elect Repayment" form duly completed, or (ii) a telegram, facsimile transmission or letter from a member of a national securities exchange or a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or a commercial bank or a trust company in the United States of America setting forth (a) the name of the Holder of the Security, (b) the Face Amount of the Security and the amount of the Security to be repaid, (c) the certificate number or description of the tenor and terms of the Security, (d) a statement that the option to elect repayment is being irrevocably exercised thereby, and (e) a guarantee stating that the Security to be repaid with the form entitled "Option to Elect Repayment" on the addendum to the Security duly completed will be received by the Paying Agent not later than five Business Days after the date of such telegram, facsimile transmission or letter (and such Security and form duly completed are received by the Company by such fifth Business Day). The address of the Paying Agent is Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Sixth and Marquette, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55479.
 
If less than the entire Face Amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the portion thereof (which shall be an integral multiple of $1,000) which the Holder elects to have repaid: $ _____________.
 
If less than the entire Face Amount of the within Security is to be repaid, specify the denomination or denominations (which shall be $1,000 or an integral multiple thereof) of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder for the portion of the within Securities not being repaid (in the absence of any specification, one such Security will be issued for the portion not being repaid): $ ___________.
 
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
 
Under Uniform Gifts to Minors Act
 
__________________________________________
(State)
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,
 
 
 
 
the within Security of WELLS FARGO & COMPANY and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint __________________________ attorney to transfer the said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 

EXHIBIT 4.2
 
 
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
 
 
 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "Company," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, an amount equal to the Maturity Payment Amount (as defined below), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, on the Stated Maturity Date (as defined below). This Security shall not bear any interest.
 
Any payments on this Security at Maturity will be made against presentation of this Security at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota.
"Dow Jones" and "Dow Jones Industrial Average" are servicemarks of Dow Jones & Company, Inc. ("Dow Jones", which term, as used herein, includes its successors) and have been licensed for use for certain purposes by the Company. This Security, based on the performance of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, is not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Dow Jones, and Dow Jones makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in this Security.
Determination of Maturity Payment Amount
 
"Maturity Payment Amount" shall mean, for each $1,000 principal amount of this Security, the sum of (i) $1,000 and (ii) the Additional Amount, if any.
 
Set forth below are certain defined terms used in this Security in connection with the determination of the Maturity Payment Amount.
 
"Additional Amount" shall mean, for each $1,000 principal amount of this Security, an amount equal to the greater of (i) $70 and (ii) the product of:
 
 
 
      Initial Index Level
 
"Average Index Level" shall mean the arithmetic average of seven annual Closing Levels of the Dow Jones Industrial Average on the last Trading Day of each April beginning April 2005 and ending April 2011. If a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on any such last Trading Day, the Closing Level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average on the first subsequent Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event will be used to calculate the Average Index Level.
 
"" shall mean a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or any other day on which banking institutions in Minneapolis, Minnesota or New York, New York are authorized or required by law or executive order to remain closed.
Business Day
 
"Calculation Agency Agreement" shall mean the Calculation Agency Agreement dated as of April 30, 2004 between the Company and the Calculation Agent, as amended from time to time.
 
"Calculation Agent" shall mean the Person that has entered into the Calculation Agency Agreement with the Company providing for, among other things, the determination of the Average Index Level, the Additional Amount, if any, and the Maturity Payment Amount, which term shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include its successors under such Calculation Agency Agreement. The initial Calculation Agent shall be Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. Pursuant to the Calculation Agency Agreement, the Company may appoint a different Calculation Agent from time to time after the initial issuance of the Securities of this series without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series and without notifying the Holders of the Securities of this series.
 
"Closing Level" shall mean, on any date, the last reported level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average at 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on such date; that in the event that Dow Jones discontinues publication of the Dow Jones Industrial Average, the Closing Level will be determined in the manner set forth in this Security under "Discontinuance Of The Dow Jones Industrial Average; Alteration Of Method Of Calculation."
provided, however,
 
"Dow Jones Industrial Average" shall mean the Dow Jones Industrial Average as calculated by Dow Jones.
 
"Initial Index Level" shall mean 10472.84.
 
A "Market Disruption Event" with respect to the Dow Jones Industrial Average will occur on any day if the Calculation Agent determines any of the following:
 
 
 
 
For purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred:
 
 
 
"Participation Rate" shall mean 1.15.
 
"Stated Maturity Date" shall mean May 5, 2011, subject to postponement if a Market Disruption Event occurs. If a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on the last Trading Day in April 2011, the Stated Maturity Date shall be the later of (i) the date which is two Business Days after the first subsequent Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event and (ii) May 5, 2011.
 
"Trading Day" shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is a day on which The New York Stock Exchange, The Nasdaq National Market and The American Stock Exchange are open for trading.
 
Discontinuance Of The Dow Jones Industrial Average; Alteration Of Method Of Calculation
 
If Dow Jones discontinues publication of the Dow Jones Industrial Average and Dow Jones or another entity publishes a successor or substitute index that the Calculation Agent determines, in its sole discretion, to be comparable to the discontinued Dow Jones Industrial Average, then any subsequent Closing Level will be determined by reference to the level of such successor or substitute index (in any such case, a "successor index") at 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date that any Closing Level is to be determined.
 
Upon any selection by the Calculation Agent of a successor index, the Company will promptly give notice to the Holders of the Securities of this series.
 
If Dow Jones discontinues publication of the Dow Jones Industrial Average prior to, and such discontinuance is continuing on, the date that any Closing Level is to be determined and the Calculation Agent determines that no successor index is available at such time, then, on such date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Closing Level to be used in computing the Average Index Level. The Closing Level will be computed by the Calculation Agent in accordance with the formula for and method of calculating the Dow Jones Industrial Average last in effect prior to such discontinuance, using the Closing Price (or, if trading in the relevant securities has been materially suspended or materially limited, its good faith estimate of the Closing Price that would have prevailed but for such suspension or limitation) at the close of the principal trading session on such date of each security most recently comprising the Dow Jones Industrial Average on the primary organized U.S. exchange or trading system. "Closing Price" means, with respect to any security on any date, the last reported sales price regular way on such date or, in case no such reported sale takes place on such date, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices regular way on such date, in either case on the primary organized U.S. exchange or trading system on which such security is then listed or admitted to trading.
 
If a successor index is selected or the Calculation Agent calculates a Closing Level as a substitute for the Dow Jones Industrial Average, such successor index or Closing Level will be used as a substitute for the Dow Jones Industrial Average for all purposes, including for purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event exists.
 
If the method of calculating the Dow Jones Industrial Average or a successor index, or its Closing Level, is changed in a material respect, or if the Dow Jones Industrial Average or a successor index is in any other way modified so that such index does not, in the opinion of the Calculation Agent, fairly represent the level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average or such successor index had such changes or modifications not been made, then the Calculation Agent will, at the close of business in New York City on the date that the Closing Level is to be determined, make such calculations and adjustments as, in the good faith judgment of the Calculation Agent, may be necessary in order to arrive at a level of a stock index comparable to the Dow Jones Industrial Average or such successor index, as the case may be, as if such changes or modifications had not been made. The Calculation Agent will calculate the Closing Level and the Average Index Level with reference to the Dow Jones Industrial Average or such successor index, as adjusted. Accordingly, if the method of calculating the Dow Jones Industrial Average or a successor index is modified so that the level of such index is a fraction of what it would have been if it had not been modified (for example, due to a split in the index), then the Calculation Agent will adjust such index in order to arrive at a level of the Dow Jones Industrial Average or such successor index as if it had not been modified (for example, as if such split had not occurred).
 
Calculation Agent
 
The Calculation Agent will determine the Maturity Payment Amount. In addition, the Calculation Agent will (i) determine if adjustments are required to the Closing Level under the circumstances described in this Security, (ii) if publication of the Dow Jones Industrial Average is discontinued, select a successor index or, if no successor index is available, determine the Closing Levels under the circumstances described in this Security and (iii) determine whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred.
 
The Company covenants that, so long as any of the Securities of this series are Outstanding, there shall at all times be a Calculation Agent (which shall be a broker-dealer, bank or other financial institution) with respect to the Securities of this series.
 
All determinations made by the Calculation Agent with respect to the Securities of this series will be at the sole discretion of the Calculation Agent and, in the absence of manifest error, will be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Company and the Holders of the Securities of this series. All percentages and other amounts resulting from any calculation with respect to the Securities of this series will be rounded at the Calculation Agent's discretion.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature or its duly authorized agent under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
 
 
 
[SEAL]
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF
AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of the
series designated therein described
in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
OR
 
 
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of July 21, 1999, as amended or supplemented from time to time (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $26,172,000; , that the Company may, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series, issue additional Securities with the same terms as the Securities of this series, and such additional Securities shall be considered part of the same series under the Indenture as the Securities of this series.
provided, however
 
The Securities of this series are not subject to redemption at the option of the Company or repayment at the option of the Holder hereof prior to May 5, 2011. The Securities will not be entitled to any sinking fund.
 
The Company agrees, to the extent permitted by law, not to voluntarily claim the benefits of any laws concerning usurious rates of interest against a Holder of Securities of this series.
 
If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the Maturity Payment Amount (calculated as set forth in the next sentence) of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The amount payable to the Holder hereof upon any acceleration permitted under the Indenture will be equal to the Maturity Payment Amount hereof calculated as though the date of acceleration was the Stated Maturity Date and the last day of the last full calendar month during the term of the Securities of this series. Upon payment of the amount so declared due and payable, all of the Company's obligations in respect of payment of the Maturity Payment Amount shall terminate. The Securities of this series will not bear a default rate of interest after the occurrence of an Event of Default or an acceleration under the Indenture.
 
The Company agrees, and by acceptance of a beneficial ownership interest in this Security each beneficial owner of this Security will be deemed to have agreed, for United States federal income tax purposes (i) to treat this Security as a single debt instrument subject to the Treasury regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments, (ii) to report all income (or loss) with
 
respect to this Security according to those Treasury regulations, and (iii) to be bound by the Company's determination of the "comparable yield" and the "projected payment schedule" (within the meaning of such Treasury regulations) for this Security, unless such beneficial owner timely discloses and justifies in its federal income tax return the use of a different comparable yield and projected payment schedule.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected, acting together. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time Outstanding affected by certain provisions of the Indenture, acting together, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with those provisions of the Indenture. Certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences may be waived under the Indenture by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series. Solely for the purpose of determining whether any consent, waiver, notice or other action or Act to be taken or given by the Holders of Securities pursuant to the Indenture has been given or taken by the Holders of Outstanding Securities in the requisite aggregate principal amount, the principal amount of this Security will be deemed to be equal to the amount set forth on the face hereof as the "Principal Amount" hereof. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
Section 403 and Article Fifteen of the Indenture and the provisions of clause (ii) of Section 401(1)(B) of the Indenture, relating to defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, shall not apply to this Security. The remaining provisions of Section 401 of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
 
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Security at the office or agency of the Company in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota, a new Security or Securities of this series in authorized denominations for an equal aggregate principal amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange herefor, as provided in the Indenture and subject to the limitations provided therein and to the limitations described below, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
 
This Security is exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form only if (x) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Security or if at any time the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and a successor depositary is not appointed within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form and notifies the Trustee thereof or (z) an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing. If this Security is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence, it shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form, having the same terms and of authorized denominations aggregating a like amount.
 
This Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor of the Depositary or a nominee of such successor. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders hereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the Maturity Payment Amount at the times and place, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed, except as otherwise provided in this Security.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the Maturity Payment Amount, or for any claim based on this Security, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.
 
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise defined in this Security.
 
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
 
the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,
 
 
 
the within Security of WELLS FARGO & COMPANY and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint attorney to transfer the said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
                        
 
 
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company
420 Montgomery Street
San Francisco, California 94163
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Reference is made to the Prospectus Supplement dated April 23, 2004 relating to Wells Fargo & Company Principal Protected Minimum Return Notes Linked to the Dow Jones Industrial Average
SM
due May 5, 2011 and the Prospectus Supplement dated April 26, 2004 relating to Wells Fargo & Company Notes Linked to the Common Stock of Station Casinos, Inc. due April 29, 2014 (each, a Prospectus Supplement), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We hereby consent to the inclusion of our opinion and to the reference to us under the heading "United States Federal Income Tax Consequences" in each Prospectus Supplement.
 


