FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20041019080225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 19, 2004 Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report. The information included in the press release is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company will include final financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, as part of its Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.

 
Third Quarter 2004 Highlights:
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported diluted earnings per common share of $1.02 for third quarter 2004, compared with $.92 in third quarter 2003, up 11 percent. Net income was $1.75 billion, up 12 percent from $1.56 billion in third quarter 2003. For the first nine months of 2004, net income was $5.23 billion, up 14 percent from the first nine months of 2003, and diluted earnings per share were $3.05, up 13 percent from the first nine months of 2003.
      "This was our twelfth consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth," said Chairman and CEO Dick Kovacevich. "We continued to invest for the Next Stage' of our success at a rate unprecedented in our company's history. Compared with third quarter last year, we have over three times as many bankers licensed to sell products such as mutual funds and annuities, 17 percent more team members selling and serving customers in our banking stores and 16 percent more at Wells Fargo Financial, our consumer finance company. We've announced a long-term goal of doubling the number of our commission-based home mortgage consultants, currently numbering 10,000. We've opened 72 new banking stores this year, an average of two per week, and we're on track to add by year-end 100 new banking stores and 80 new consumer finance stores. By year-end, we'll have remodeled 261 banking stores.
      Much of our growth continued to come from earning more business from our current customers. The attitude and commitment of our team members is the single biggest factor influencing our customers to entrust us with more of their business. Every month this year, through needs-based selling, we've had more than one million retail banking product sales, a company record. Almost one of every three of our new checking account customers now has a Wells Fargo product pack, which is a checking account and at least three other products such as a debit card, credit card and online banking. With our recently announced alliance with Grupo Financiero Banorte, in addition to those with HSBC Mexico and BBVA Bancomer, we now have the largest network for remitting funds to Mexico of any U.S. financial services company. In Florida, where we employ more than 1,800 team members and have 140 mortgage and consumer finance stores, we're proud to have supported disaster relief efforts."
Financial Performance
      "Third quarter 2004 was the twelfth consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth, with earnings per share of $1.02, up 11 percent from $.92 in third quarter 2003. This was another exceptional quarter of solid growth, improved productivity and strong credit quality," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. Apart from the expected decline in home mortgage demand from last year's peak and from the late first quarter/early second quarter 2004 mini-refi' wave, business trends were solid across the board in third quarter 2004, with revenue growth of 11 percent in businesses other than Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (Home Mortgage).
      "We continued to take advantage of unusually volatile markets in the third quarter, selling approximately $4 billion of securities and adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) following the big drop in long-term interest rates and narrowing of credit spreads. These repositioning actions resulted in $10 million of bond gains and $35 million of losses on loans. In addition, given the decline in long-term rates during the quarter, mortgage banking fees were reduced by
 
$130 million due primarily to an addition to the impairment valuation allowance for mortgage servicing rights (MSRs)."
Revenue
      Revenue of $7.3 billion for third quarter 2004 was flat from a year ago and down $108 million on a linked-quarter basis, reflecting lower revenue from Home Mortgage. Combined revenue of all the businesses other than Home Mortgage grew 11 percent from $5.8 billion in third quarter 2003 to $6.4 billion in third quarter 2004. "Revenue growth in these businesses was broad-based, led by strong growth in consumer lending and deposits, small business banking, credit cards, debit cards and consumer finance," said Atkins.
      Home Mortgage revenue declined $623 million, or 40 percent, from $1.5 billion in third quarter 2003 to $.9 billion in third quarter 2004 due to a decline of $93 billion, or 58 percent, in mortgage originations driven by the increase in long-term rates from last year's record lows. Home Mortgage revenue declined almost $400 million on a linked-quarter basis due primarily to the decline in originations from the second quarter 2004 mini-refi' wave and to the $211 million increase in the MSRs valuation allowance. The third quarter impairment valuation provision increased the MSRs valuation allowance to $1.8 billion at quarter end. At September 30, 2004, MSRs were $7.8 billion, or 1.18 percent of loans serviced for others compared with 1.37 percent at June 30, 2004.
Loans
      Average loans of $274.3 billion in third quarter 2004 increased 27 percent from $216.2 billion in third quarter 2003, and $8.0 billion, or 12 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $7.7 billion, or 9 percent, from third quarter 2003, and $1.8 billion, or 8 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. "Again this quarter, commercial loans grew across virtually all of our segments, including small business direct, middle market, commercial real estate, leasing, trade finance and asset-based lending. We are particularly pleased with continued solid middle-market loan growth," said Atkins.
      "In addition to commercial loan growth, we saw continued strong demand for consumer credit," said Atkins. Average consumer loans increased $49.1 billion, or 38 percent, from third quarter 2003, and $5.4 billion, or 12 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Growth was broad-based across home equity, residential mortgage, credit card, revolving credit and installment loan products.
Deposits
      Average core deposits of $225.0 billion for third quarter 2004 grew $9.3 billion, or 4 percent, from third quarter 2003, and increased $107 million on a linked-quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $13.8 billion for third quarter 2004, down $10.4 billion from third quarter 2003 and down $2.9 billion from second quarter 2004. Excluding mortgage escrow deposits, average core deposits grew $19.8 billion, or 10 percent, from third quarter 2003 and $3.0 billion, or 6 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis.
 
      Average retail core deposits, excluding mortgage escrow deposits, grew 11 percent from third quarter 2003 and 8 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Average consumer checking account balances grew 13 percent from third quarter 2003 and 6 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis, reflecting a 6 percent net increase in consumer checking accounts from a year ago and higher average balances.
Net Interest Income
      Net interest income for third quarter 2004 increased 7 percent from a year ago. Despite the decline in mortgages held for sale from last year, earning assets were up 9 percent due to the 27 percent growth in average commercial and consumer loans. On a linked-quarter basis, net interest income was strong, up $192 million, or 18 percent (annualized). This was driven by an $8 billion increase in average total loans, a 12 percent (annualized) increase, and a 6 basis point increase in the net interest margin to 4.89 percent, partly due to balance sheet repositioning actions taken in the last few quarters. This was the first quarterly increase in the margin in the past 10 quarters. At September 30, 2004, the Company had $1.4 billion in unrealized gains on securities available for sale, up from $1.2 billion at June 30, 2004.
Noninterest Income
      Noninterest income declined $291 million, or 9 percent, from third quarter 2003. Excluding mortgage banking fee income, noninterest income increased 9 percent from third quarter 2003. "The increase in fee income in our non-mortgage banking activities reflected improved business conditions and solid year-over-year growth in deposit, loan, credit card and debit card fees and growth in the international, institutional investment and Acordia insurance businesses," said Atkins. Noninterest income declined $300 million on a linked-quarter basis, due primarily to a decline in mortgage banking fee income and the seasonality of the crop insurance business. During the quarter $48 million of equity investment gains were realized compared with $81 million in second quarter 2004. In line with a relatively flat and sluggish stock market, investment management fees were down from second quarter 2004.
Noninterest Expense
      Noninterest expense was $4.2 billion in third quarter 2004, down $355 million, or 8 percent, from third quarter 2003. Home Mortgage expense declined approximately $370 million from third quarter 2003 reflecting lower production and staffing costs. On a linked-quarter basis, noninterest expense decreased $133 million.
Credit Quality
      "Credit quality trends remained very solid," said Chief Credit Officer Dave Munio. "Despite the substantial loan growth we experienced in the last three years, nonperforming assets continued to trend lower and credit losses remained flat." Third quarter losses were $407 million (.59 percent of loans outstanding, annualized), essentially flat to prior quarter's $390 million (.59 percent) and declined year-over-year from $424 million (.78 percent). "This was the third consecutive quarter of exceptional results in our Wholesale Banking business units. While we experienced strong consumer loan demand, growth continued to be balanced with our high consumer loan underwriting standards," said Munio. "Our portfolios continued to demonstrate excellent performance."
 
      The third quarter provision for credit losses matched net charge-offs, resulting in an essentially unchanged allowance of $3.95 billion at September 30, 2004 from June 30, 2004. Consistent with regulatory guidance, the Company reclassified the part of the allowance for loan losses related to unfunded commercial lending commitments and letters of credit, or $163 million, to other liabilities. "This treatment does not reduce the total valuation reserve for credit losses," said Munio.
      Nonperforming assets of $1.57 billion at September 30, 2004, or .56 percent of total loans, declined from prior quarter by $47 million, or 3 percent. Nonperforming assets in third quarter 2004 were at their lowest level since first quarter 2001. "We believe it is reasonable to expect a modest increase in nonperforming assets as our residential mortgage portfolio seasons and we have a gradual increase in loans in foreclosure," said Munio.
Business Segment Performance
      Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. Net income of the three business segments was:
      More financial information about the business segments is on pages 25 and 26.
      
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
 
      Community Banking reported net income of $1,246 million in third quarter 2004, compared with $1,065 million for the same period of 2003, up 17 percent. Net interest income increased by $183 million, compared with third quarter 2003, due primarily to growth in consumer and 1-4 family loans and deposits, partially offset by a decrease in mortgages held for sale. Noninterest income decreased by $300 million compared with third quarter 2003 due primarily to a decline in mortgage origination volumes. Noninterest expense decreased by $460 million in third quarter 2004, or 13 percent, compared with the same period of 2003, due primarily to a decline in mortgage origination volumes.
      "Our experienced and dedicated sales team achieved the highest quarterly sales in our history with 3.81 million core sales for the third quarter, up 17 percent from the same period last year. For the first time, we have exceeded one million core sales each month during the year," said John Stumpf, Group EVP, Community Banking. "The number of retail bankers increased by 1,700, up 17 percent from last September, while we maintained our strong sales efficiency at 5.13 core sales per platform banker per day. Private Banking, serving our most affluent customers' needs, has enjoyed outstanding growth this year." For Private Banking, average core deposits grew by 46 percent in third quarter 2004, compared with a year ago, while loans grew 20 percent over the same period.
      "The advantage of Wells Fargo's multi-channel, anytime, anywhere sales approach is reflected in the growth of the home equity portfolio, which is up 43 percent from prior year to $46 billion dollars," said Mark Oman, Group EVP, Home and Consumer Finance.
      "The mortgage market is transitioning from a refinance market to a purchase market as the refinancing wave ebbs. As a result of reduced refinancing activity, mortgage originations for the quarter were $68 billion, a decrease of $28 billion from the second quarter. Home mortgage applications declined to $83 billion, down $17 billion from the prior quarter. The application pipeline of $55 billion at September 30, 2004 was down 4 percent from June 30, 2004."
      The owned servicing portfolio, including commercial servicing, grew to $777 billion with an average note rate of 5.75 percent.
 
      
Wholesale Banking
provides businesses across the United States predominantly with annual sales in excess of $10 million with a complete line of commercial, corporate, treasury management, investment, insurance, capital markets and real estate banking products and services.
      Wholesale Banking reported net income of $363 million in third quarter 2004, compared with $372 million in third quarter 2003. The decline reflected a lower net interest margin and an 8 percent increase in noninterest expense primarily due to higher personnel costs. For the first nine months of 2004, net income was $1,196 million, compared with $1,063 million for the first nine months of 2003, a 13 percent increase. The 2004 year-to-date results benefited from continued strength in asset-based lending and improved credit quality.
      "We're pleased to see third quarter commercial loan growth of 12 percent annualized from prior quarter. Credit quality has been particularly strong, resulting in lower credit losses of $51 million year-to-date compared with $154 million year-to-date 2003. All of our team members continue to focus on attracting new customers and providing outstanding solutions," said Dave Hoyt, Group EVP, Wholesale Banking.
      Active users on the portal in 2004 increased 42 percent from third quarter 2003. Foreign Exchange Online via the has grown to become a key component of the Company's international services. Approximately 60 percent of the Company's foreign exchange transactions are now conducted with this online tool.
Commercial Electronic Office (CEO)
CEO
      The Strong Funds Board of Directors unanimously approved a reorganization of the Strong Funds into . The closing of the transaction is expected to take place at the end of this year or early next year, pending Strong Funds shareholder approval. "We continue to be very optimistic about the addition of the Strong Funds into the family and are committed to providing our clients with a broader and deeper mutual fund lineup," said Hoyt. The three former Cooke & Bieler Funds became part of the family this quarter. Through a sub-advisory agreement with Wells Fargo Funds Management, Cooke & Bieler continues to manage the investments in the Wells Fargo C&B Funds.
Wells Fargo Funds
Wells Fargo Funds
Wells Fargo Funds
 
      
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer installment and home equity lending, automobile financing, consumer and private-label credit cards and commercial services to consumers and businesses in 48 states, Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean and the Pacific Islands.
      "Third-quarter receivables growth continued at a strong pace with average loans of $30.7 billion up 45 percent compared with third quarter 2003," said Tom Shippee, president and CEO of Wells Fargo Financial. "This growth reflects our continued success in being able to provide products that help our customers achieve their personal financial goals. We've been able to grow our loans while maintaining sound credit quality. Delinquencies and loss rates both declined year-over-year reflecting changes in our customer and loan mix."
Recorded Message
      A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results will be available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific time through October 22, 2004. Dial 800-642-1687 (domestic) or 706-645-9291 (international). Access code 1077497. The call is also available on the internet at www.wellsfargo.com/ir and .
www.vcall.com
      The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
      This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company. Forward-looking statements consist of descriptions of plans or objectives for future operations, products or services, forecasts of revenues, earnings or other measures of economic performance, and assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. Because forward-looking statements discuss future events or conditions and not historical facts, they often include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "target," "can," "could," "may," "should," "will," "would" or similar expressions. Examples of forward-looking statements in this release include statements about future credit losses and credit quality, and the expected timeframe for the Strong Funds acquisition.
      Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give the Company's expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as
 
of the date they are made, and the Company does not undertake to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
      There are several factorsmany beyond the Company's controlthat could cause results to differ significantly from the Company's expectations. Factors such as credit, market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks are described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, including information incorporated into the Form 10-K from the Company's 2003 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13 to the Form 10-K. See, for example, "Financial ReviewRisk Management" included in the 2003 Annual Report to Stockholders and incorporated by reference into the Form 10-K.
      Other factors described in the Form 10-Q and Form 10-K include  business and economic conditions  fiscal and monetary policies  legislation and regulation  disintermediation  competition generally and in light of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act  potential dividend restrictions  market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services  non-banking activities  reliance on other companies for infrastructure components  integration of acquired companies  attracting and retaining key personnel  stock price volatility. See, for example, "Factors That May Affect Future Results" in the June 30, 2004 Form 10-Q.
      Any factor described in this news release or in any document referred to in this news release, could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
      
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $422 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance to more than 23 million customers from more than 6,000 stores, the internet (wellsfargo.com) and other distribution channels across North America and elsewhere internationally.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION AND SERVICING DATA
 
 


