FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20051018080113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 18, 2005, Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. The text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report. The information included in the press release is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company will include final financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, as part of its Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
       
       
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
      
Highlights:
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record diluted earnings per common share of $1.16 for third quarter 2005, up 14 percent from $1.02 in third quarter 2004. Net income was a record $1.98 billion, up 13 percent from $1.75 billion in third quarter 2004.
"Our outstanding performance this quarter proves again that our time-tested business model and talented team can consistently produce industry-leading results including double-digit growth in revenue, net income and earnings per share," said Chairman and CEO Dick Kovacevich. "We've achieved this superior performance over a variety of economic cycles because of our disciplined risk management, diversity across virtually all of financial services and our focus on earning all our customers' business.
"As we work with our customers to assess their personal situation and the effect of the Gulf State hurricanes, we are offering them personal financial counseling, dedicated assistance numbers and moratoriums on collections and foreclosures. We also may provide extended terms for affected customers depending on their circumstances. Through year-end, residents of Alabama, Louisiana and Mississippi can make free withdrawals from any Wells Fargo ATM, nationwide, whether or not they have a Wells Fargo account. We also increased the daily spending limit for our ATM and Check Card customers in affected areas of those states. Our affected small business customers can obtain emergency increases in their credit lines, bridge loans, term loans, credit protection, deferred loan payments and fee waivers. Our affected student loan customers automatically have loan forbearance through year-end. Our company and team members have contributed a total of $1.5 million to the American Red Cross Hurricane Katrina Relief Fund. Although very difficult to precisely assess at this time, we recorded a $100 million provision in excess of net charge-offs this quarter for the impact of Hurricane Katrina on Wells Fargo's loan portfolio.
"During the quarter, our home mortgage and consumer finance businesses announced changes to benefit customers of our nonprime real estate-secured lending businesses including a flat maximum limit for origination fees on retail nonprime loans, simplifying caps on prepayment charges and eliminating mandatory arbitration clauses on consumer finance real estate loans. Our consistently superior financial performance, our commitment to our communities and ethical business practices were among the criteria for a recent survey of money managers by which ranked Wells Fargo the world's most respected financial services company."
Barron's
Diluted earnings per share were a record $1.16, up 14 percent from $1.02 in third quarter 2004 and up 14 percent (annualized) from $1.12 earned in second quarter 2005, once again driven by solid double-digit revenue growth, up 16 percent from last year. "We've always maintained that our focus on earning all of our customers' business by cross-selling our broad set of products and services provides us with both the diversification and opportunity to consistently grow both the top and bottom lines, regardless of the economic environment, and third quarter results show the value of our strategy," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "Our 14 percent earnings growth was broad based, with nearly every consumer and commercial business line achieving double-digit profit growth, including regional banking, middle market/corporate banking, commercial real estate, asset-based lending, small business lending, home mortgage, student lending, asset management and international services. Both net interest income and noninterest income grew solidly during the quarter and many of our fee-based products had double-digit revenue growth. As we've stated, in order to consistently grow
Financial Performance
 
over the long term, successful companies must invest in their core businesses and maintain strong balance sheets. Actions taken in the third quarter included:
"In addition, we continued to make investments by increasing our sales force by approximately 1,000 team members, opening 21 regional banking stores and 16 Wells Fargo Financial stores, renovating 100 stores and improving distribution and customer service during the quarter," said Atkins.
Revenue of $8.5 billion increased $1.2 billion, or 16 percent, from a year ago, and $2.6 billion, or 12 percent, for the first nine months of 2005. Wells Fargo Home Mortgage revenue increased $487 million to $1.4 billion, and for the first nine months of 2005 increased $633 million to $3.7 billion from the same period of 2004. Combined revenue of businesses other than Home Mortgage grew 11 percent in third quarter 2005 from third quarter 2004 and 10 percent year-to-date 2005 from year-to-date 2004. "Revenue growth was once again broad based across most of our businesses and reflected solid growth in both net interest income and noninterest income," said Atkins.
Revenue
Average loans of $295.6 billion increased $21.4 billion, or 8 percent, from third quarter 2004. Excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages  the loan category impacted by ARM sales over the past several quarters  total average loans grew $37.6 billion, or 20 percent.
Loans
Average consumer loans increased 4 percent from third quarter 2004, and declined 8 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. "Excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages, consumer loans continued to grow at a healthy pace, up 26 percent year-over-year and 12 percent linked quarter (annualized), reflecting solid growth in home equity, credit card, and other revolving credit and installment loans," said Atkins.
Commercial loan growth also was strong, with average commercial and commercial real estate loans up $13.0 billion, or 14 percent, year-over-year and $3.3 billion, or 13 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis, the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit, linked-quarter growth. "We continued to see solid commercial loan growth in asset-based lending, middle market, specialized financial services, commercial real estate and small business banking, including business direct," said Atkins.
 
Average core deposits of $247.2 billion, grew $22.2 billion, or 10 percent, from third quarter 2004 and increased $8.9 billion, or 15 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $19 billion, up $5.4 billion from third quarter 2004 and up $2.9 billion from second quarter 2005. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 8 percent from third quarter 2004 and 11 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Average retail core deposits grew $18.9 billion, or 10 percent, from third quarter 2004 and increased $6.3 billion, or 13 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. "Our consistently strong deposit growth in spite of the competitive environment was broad based across our deposit products, with particular strength in small business demand accounts, interest-bearing checking and savings certificates," said Atkins.
Deposits
Net interest income increased 6 percent from third quarter 2004 and 12 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis reflecting solid loan growth (other than ARMs) and a relatively stable net interest margin. Average earning assets grew 6 percent year-over-year and 12 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis, or 14 percent and 25 percent, respectively, excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages. Net interest margin of 4.86 percent was down 3 basis points from both a year ago and second quarter 2005, with the positive impact on the margin from balance sheet repositioning actions offset by the increase in the mortgage warehouse on a linked-quarter basis. "Given the prospect of higher short-term interest rates and a flatter yield curve, beginning in the second quarter 2004 we started a program of selling our lowest-yielding ARMs on our balance sheet, periodically replacing some of these sales at higher yields. From the second quarter of 2004 through the third quarter of 2005, we sold $60 billion in ARMs at an average yield of 4.22 percent, realizing losses during these six quarters of approximately $350 million not including the foregone interest differential. As a result, however, the average yield on our 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio  which includes ARMs  increased from 5.19 percent on an average balance of $89.4 billion in second quarter 2004 to a yield of 6.60 percent on an average balance of $72.5 billion in third quarter 2005. With ARM yields in the 5.5 percent range at quarter-end, we held ARMs at yields that were more than 1 percent higher than the average yield on all the ARMs sold since second quarter 2004," said Atkins.
Net Interest Income
Noninterest income increased $927 million, or 32 percent, from third quarter 2004. "Double-digit growth in noninterest income reflected strong results across our businesses including double-digit growth in trust and investment fees, card fees, other fees, mortgage banking and strong capital markets results," said Atkins. Mortgage banking servicing fees in third quarter 2005 included $356 million in mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) valuation allowance release (increase in mortgage banking revenue) compared with $211 million in impairment provision (reduction in mortgage banking revenue) in third quarter 2004.
Noninterest Income
On a linked-quarter basis, noninterest income increased $498 million. "This increase was driven by solid growth in service charges on deposit accounts, trust and investment fees, card fees, other fees, mortgage banking and trading income, offset by seasonally lower insurance fees and lower net realized gains from debt securities and equity investments," said Atkins.
Noninterest expense was up $669 million, or 16 percent, from third quarter 2004 and up $335 million, or 29 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis and included $41 million in
Noninterest Expense
 
losses on airplane lease write-downs, $25 million for the early adoption of FIN 47, which relates to recognition of obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets such as building and leasehold improvements, and $14 million of integration expense. "Expense growth both year-over-year and linked-quarter was driven by increased mortgage production and continued investment in our businesses," said Atkins. Home Mortgage expenses increased approximately $200 million from third quarter 2004 and $160 million from second quarter 2005 reflecting higher production and application processing costs. During the quarter, we opened 37 new stores, renovated approximately 100 banking stores and added 1,031 new retail bankers. The efficiency ratio was 57.5 percent, improving slightly from both the prior quarter and third quarter 2004.
As required under FAS 123R, we will begin expensing stock options on January 1, 2006. Assuming our 2006 option grant will vest over a three year period and the valuation and number of options will be the same as our February 2005 grant, we anticipate this expense to reduce 2006 earnings per share by approximately $.06.
Third quarter credit results were in line with expectations," said Chief Credit Officer Dave Munio. "Our $300 billion loan portfolio remained well-diversified and experienced good, steady growth across all lending segments." Third quarter 2005 net charge-offs were $541 million (.73 percent of average loans outstanding, annualized) compared with $454 million (.62 percent) in second quarter 2005 and $407 million (.59 percent) a year ago. The increased losses during third quarter 2005 were driven by increased consumer bankruptcies in advance of the mid-October implementation of bankruptcy reform legislation, continued loan growth and seasoning at Wells Fargo Financial, which has performed consistently with our risk-based pricing model, and a return to modest commercial losses after a net recovery in Wholesale Banking in second quarter 2005.
Credit Quality
"
During the third quarter of 2005, Hurricane Katrina damage affected the Company's loan portfolios. "The impact is expected to be primarily in the consumer lending area, including our residential real estate, credit card, automobile, and other revolving credit and installment loan portfolios," said Munio. "These portfolios total approximately $2 billion in loan outstandings in the FEMA-designated impacted areas. We believe the principal balance of loans subject to loss is less than $500 million based on our analysis to date of the existence of insurance coverage, type of loan, location and potential damage to collateral. Based on further analysis of the loss content of these loans, we believe it is prudent to provide an additional $100 million to the allowance for credit losses. Many of the loans are to borrowers where repayment prospects have not yet been determined to be diminished, or are in areas where the properties may have suffered little, if any, damage or may not yet have been inspected. We will continue to refine our estimates as more information becomes available. We currently do not estimate any significant exposure from Hurricane Katrina in our commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolios, totaling about $100 million in loan outstandings in the affected areas. We are still gathering information but, at this point we expect no material effect from Hurricane Rita."
Total nonperforming assets (NPAs) were $1.49 billion (.50 percent of total loans) at September 30, 2005, compared with $1.39 billion (.46 percent) at June 30, 2005, and $1.57 billion (.56 percent) at September 30, 2004. "NPAs remained at very manageable levels," said Munio. "Modest levels of new problem loans were largely offset by reductions in inventory in our well-managed workout units. We continued to monitor the level of foreclosed
 
residential real estate and repossessed autos but saw no unsatisfactory trends as of quarter end."
The allowance for credit losses was $4.06 billion at September 30, 2005, and covered nearly two times annualized net credit losses and nearly three times NPAs. "We consider the allowance adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolios at September 30, 2005," said Munio.
Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. Net income for each was:
Business Segment Performance
More financial information about the business segments is on pages 27 and 28.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
Community Banking reported net income of $1.49 billion, up 22 percent from $1.22 billion in third quarter 2004. Net interest income increased by $70 million, compared with third quarter 2004, primarily due to growth in earning assets and balance sheet repositioning mitigated by net interest margin compression. Noninterest income was up $765 million in third quarter 2005, compared with the same period last year, due to higher mortgage banking revenue and strong growth in card fees, loan fees, deposit service charges, trading income and gains from equity investments. Noninterest expense increased by $443 million, or 15 percent, in third quarter 2005 compared with the same period of 2004, due primarily to increased mortgage production and continued investment in business growth.
 
"We're very pleased with the outstanding operating performance of our businesses serving consumers and small businesses," said President and COO John Stumpf. "Once again, our financial results reflect the success of our diverse business model and our ability to satisfy all of the financial needs of our customers."
Regional Banking Highlights
Our Regional Banking team achieved another quarter of excellent sales performance," said Carrie Tolstedt, Group EVP, Regional Banking. "Core product sales were up 13 percent from 2004 with banker productivity at 5.11, up from 4.92 in the prior quarter. Sales of store-based business solutions increased 25 percent from a year ago. Loans to small businesses (loans primarily less than $100,000) grew 18 percent over the prior year. Additionally, we continued to experience strong account and deposit growth. Net consumer checking account growth was up 4.6 percent from the prior year. Retail core deposits were up 10 percent year-over-year, surpassing $200 billion for the first time in our company's history. This important milestone can be attributed to the efforts of our amazing group of talented team members who work everyday to achieve our vision of helping our customers succeed financially and becoming one of America's great companies."
Home Mortgage and Home Equity Highlights
"Our residential real estate lending businesses continued their strong performance in the third quarter with double-digit growth in applications, originations and servicing portfolio and 9 percent growth in home equity loans over the same period last year," said Mark Oman, Senior EVP, Home and Consumer Finance Group. "The rise in interest rates during the quarter and the growth in the servicing portfolio resulted in an increase in the mortgage servicing rights asset to $10.7 billion, or 1.31 percent of loans serviced for others, compared with $8.5 billion, or 1.12 percent, at June 30, 2005. Reflecting the increase in fair value of the servicing asset, due principally to an increase in interest rates, a $356 million reversal of the valuation allowance was realized in the quarter."
 
,
Wholesale Banking
serves customers coast to coast
including middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, capital markets activities, and institutional investments.
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $407 million, up 12 percent from a year ago. Revenue was $1.48 billion, up 18 percent from $1.25 billion in third quarter 2004, driven by higher capital markets revenue and the impact of the Strong Financial acquisition. Noninterest expense was up 25 percent from the prior year, primarily due to the impact of the Strong Financial acquisition and the write-down of certain aircraft leases due to bankruptcy filings. Average loans increased 18 percent to $63.3 billion from third quarter 2004, with double-digit loan growth across all wholesale lending businesses.
"Our team achieved solid results in a very competitive market by focusing on our customers," said Dave Hoyt, Senior EVP, Wholesale Banking. "We experienced another quarter of double-digit year-over-year profit and revenue growth. Loan growth was strong, up 18 percent over the prior year and 13 percent (annualized) over the last quarter. Credit quality remained very strong. Commercial real estate overall performed well. We acquired the assets of Regulus West's wholesale lockbox operations to complete the largest image-equipped wholesale lockbox network in the nation.
"We continue to adapt new technology to help our customers with leading-edge products they need to manage their businesses faster and easier. Using Desktop Depositthe first Check 21 browser-based electronic deposit solution to reach the market  and our other electronic deposit services, customers have deposited more than one million checks directly from their offices in the few months since we introduced the services."
SM
 
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer loans primarily through real estate-secured debt consolidation products, automobile financing, consumer and private-label credit cards and commercial services to consumers and businesses throughout the United States and in Canada, Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Pacific Rim.
Wells Fargo Financial reported net income of $79 million, compared with $168 million in third quarter 2004. Revenue was $1.18 billion, up 11 percent from $1.06 billion in third quarter 2004. Average loans increased 23 percent to $47.9 billion from $38.8 billion a year ago. Noninterest expense increased 10 percent to $644 million from $588 million in third quarter 2004. The increases in provision expense for the quarter and year to date compared with the prior year represent specific events, such as the impact of Hurricane Katrina, the effect of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) loss recognition changes adopted first quarter 2005 and expected increased losses driven by portfolio growth, and are not indicative of a shift in borrower risk profile.
"Hurricane Katrina had a substantial financial impact on Wells Fargo Financial during the quarter, but the larger concern was the human toll the disaster had on so many people," said Tom Shippee, Wells Fargo Financial president and CEO. "Our first concern was our team members and our customers, who we worked with during this time to provide a moratorium on payments for at least 90 days. During the quarter, we added $100 million to our allowance for estimated losses related to Hurricane Katrina and growth in our portfolios. Despite that expense, our third quarter results were strong, with overall receivables up 23 percent year-over-year, primarily driven by our real estate and auto lending units. Real estate-secured receivables increased 43 percent from a year ago, and auto receivables grew 15 percent year-over-year.
"In July, we announced the integration of the Wells Fargo Auto Finance Group and Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance, a move designed to leverage the expertise and resources of the two automobile financing businesses to better serve both the retail and wholesale segments of the automobile financing industry. The consolidated business, now known as Wells Fargo Auto Finance, is managed by Wells Fargo Financial and will serve more than 20,000 franchised automobile dealers across North America when the integration is complete later this year. Combined, the new Wells Fargo Auto Finance has more than $20 billion in receivables, making it the second-largest noncaptive indirect auto originator in the U.S. We're excited about this strategic integration. We made significant strides in the integration process during the third quarter, and we expect to be positioned to fully leverage the resources of the new
 
Wells Fargo Auto Finance to satisfy more of our customers' needs. This move enables us to serve the full credit spectrum of customers with indirect financing through dealers, vehicle lease financing and direct-to-consumer loan products."
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results will be available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through October 21, 2005. Dial 800-642-1687 (domestic) or 706-645-9291 (international). Access code 9953898. The call is also available on the internet at and .
Recorded Message
www.wellsfargo.com/ir
www.vcall.com
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company. Forward-looking statements consist of descriptions of plans or objectives for future operations, products or services, forecasts of revenues, earnings or other measures of economic performance, and assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. Because forward-looking statements discuss future events or conditions and not historical facts, they often include words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "project," "target," "can," "could," "may," "should," "will," "would" or similar expressions. Examples of forward-looking statements in this release include statements about (i) the expected impact of Hurricane Katrina on our loan portfolios, including the principal balance of loans believed to be subject to loss and the expected loss content of these loans, (ii) the expected impact of Hurricane Rita, (iii) the expected impact of expensing stock options on our 2006 earnings per share, and (iv) future credit losses and credit quality.
Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give the Company's expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Company does not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
There are a number of factorsmany beyond the Company's controlthat could cause results to differ significantly from the Company's expectations. Factors such as credit, market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks are described in the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005, and Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, including information incorporated into the Form 10-K from the Company's 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13 to the Form 10-K. See, for example, "Financial ReviewRisk Management" included in the 2004 Annual Report to Stockholders and incorporated by reference into the Form 10-K.
Other factors described in the Form 10-K include  -  business and economic conditions  -  fiscal and monetary policies  -  legislation and regulation including the Patriot Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act  -  customers choosing not to use banks for transactions or choosing to take money out of the bank and investing it in the stock market or elsewhere  -  competition generally and in light of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act  -  potential dividend restrictions  -  market acceptance and regulatory approval of new products and services  -  non-banking activities  -  reliance on other companies for infrastructure components  -  integration of acquired companies  -  attracting and retaining key personnel  -  stock price volatility. See, for example, "Factors That May Affect Future Results" in the June 30, 2005 Form 10-Q.
 
Hurricane Katrina has affected the Company's loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The ultimate impact of the hurricane on the Company is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, and the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the hurricane adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. The impact of the hurricane on the Company may be greater than anticipated.
Any factor described in this news release, in the Form 10-K, or in any information incorporated by reference therein, could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $453 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance to more than 23 million customers from more than 6,200 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and elsewhere internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the United States to receive the highest possible credit rating, "Aaa," from Moody's Investors Service.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
       
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS)(
)(
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION AND SERVICING DATA
 


