FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20050228124503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On February 22, 2005, the Human Resources Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved incentive compensation awards to be paid under the Company's Performance-Based Compensation Policy to the Company's chief executive officer and the Company's four highest paid executive officers other than the chief executive officer (together with the chief executive officer, the "Named Executive Officers") for the year ended December 31, 2004. The following table shows the amounts of these awards, together with the base salaries of the Named Executive Officers for the 12-month period beginning March 1, 2005.
 
 
Also on February 22, 2005, the Committee approved grants of stock options to each of the Named Executive Officers pursuant to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and the form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement filed as Exhibit 10 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, as follows: Richard M. Kovacevich  830,000 shares; David A. Hoyt  298,510 shares; Mark C. Oman  298,510 shares; John G. Stumpf  298,510 shares; and Howard I. Atkins  232,180 shares.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10
 
 
 
1. Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") has granted to you an option ("Option") to purchase shares (the "Shares") of Wells Fargo & Company common stock ("Common Stock"). The Option is granted subject in all respects to the terms of the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").
Grant of Option.
            
        
 
2. The term of this Option commences on 02/22/2005 and, except as provided in paragraph 3 below, ends on 02/22/2015, provided you are continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate ("Wells Fargo"). This Option is "vested" and exercisable in full as of 02/22/2005. If your employment with Wells Fargo is terminated, the Option may be exercised only as described in paragraph 3 below. While you are alive, the Option may be exercised only by you or your legal representative.
Term, Vesting and Exercise of Option.
 
To exercise all or part of the Option you must deliver a "Notice of Exercise," in such form as the Company authorizes, along with payment as described herein of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes. You must pay the exercise price on the day you exercise the Option (a) in cash, (b) in whole shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value (the prior trading day's closing price), or (c) by delivering, with your Notice of Exercise, irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the amount of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes. If Stock is used to pay the exercise price ("swap transaction"), the Stock used (i) must have been owned by you for at least six months prior to the date of exercise or purchased by you in the open market; and (ii) must not have been used in a stock-for-stock swap transaction within the preceding six months. You shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option until you have exercised the Option for such Shares.
 
3. If your termination of employment is due to Retirement, your Option will be exercisable until the expiration date or until one year after your date of death, whichever occurs first. If you become permanently disabled while you are employed by Wells Fargo, then your Option will be exercisable until one year after your date of death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first. If you die while you are employed by Wells Fargo, the beneficiary as set forth in the Plan may exercise the Option until one year after the date of your death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first.
Retirement, Disability, Death or Other Termination of Employment.
 
If you leave Wells Fargo's employment for any reason other than death, permanent disability, Retirement, or discharge for cause, you may exercise the Option at any time within three (3) months after the date of termination. If you are discharged for cause, the Option will expire upon receipt by you of oral or written notice of termination.
 
4. The issuance of Shares upon the exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto, including withholding tax obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance. You agree to satisfy all withholding tax obligations applicable to the acquisition of Shares under the Option or the disposition of such Shares that the Company deems necessary. Income taxes are computed based on the difference between the Fair Market Value of the Shares acquired as of the date of exercise and the exercise price for those Shares. Taxes may be paid either in cash or, if you elect, by having the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued a number of Shares (valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise) necessary to satisfy the taxes. The Company is not obligated to exercise the Option and/or deliver the Shares until all payment obligations are met.
Compliance and
Withholding Taxes.
 
5. The Option may be transferred only by will, the laws of descent and distribution or by your designating a beneficiary in accordance with Section 10.1(e) of the Plan.
Transferability of Option.
 
6. Nothing in this Agreement gives you any right to continued employment and Wells Fargo may terminate you at any time for any reason.
No Agreement for Wells Fargo to Continue Your Employment.
 
7. The Company may delay the exercise of the Option if it determines that (a) the Shares subject to the Option should be listed, registered or qualified on any securities exchange or under any law, or (b) the consent of a regulatory body is desirable.
General Restrictions.
8.This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement are used as defined in the Plan. If the Plan and this Agreement are inconsistent, provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company.
Additional Provisions and Interpretation of this Agreement.


