FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20060630134631.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On June 27, 2006, the Human Resources Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved grants of stock options to John G. Stumpf for 60,020 shares of the Company's common stock and to each of Howard I. Atkins, David A. Hoyt and Mark C. Oman for 30,010 shares of common stock in connection with an increase in their management responsibilities. The grants were made pursuant to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and the form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement filed as Exhibit 10 to this report and incorporated herein by this reference. The exercise price of the options is $65.85, the closing price of the Company's common stock on June 26, 2006.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On June 27, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors elected John G. Stumpf a director of the Company. Mr. Stumpf is President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company. Mr. Stumpf has not been named, nor is he expected to be named, to any standing committees of the Board. The Company's press release announcing Mr. Stumpf's election to the Board is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On June 27, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend on the Company's common stock, to be distributed on August 11, 2006, to stockholders of record at the close of business on August 4, 2006. In the stock split, the Company will distribute one share of common stock for each share of common stock issued and outstanding or held in the treasury of the Company at the close of business on August 4, 2006. Stockholders will receive a direct registration (book-entry) statement for the additional shares of common stock to be issued in the stock split and will not need to exchange existing stock certificates. The Company's press release announcing the stock split and an increase in the quarterly common stock cash dividend is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.2.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10
 
1. Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") has granted to you an option ("Option") to purchase shares (the "Shares") of Wells Fargo & Company common stock ("Common Stock"). The Option is granted subject in all respects to the terms of the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").
Grant of Option.
            
2. The term of this Option commences on 06/27/2006 and, except as provided in paragraph 3 below, ends on 06/27/2016, provided you are continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate ("Wells Fargo"). If your employment with Wells Fargo is terminated, the Option may be exercised only as described in paragraph 3 below.
Term, Vesting and Exercise of Option.
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, this Option becomes exercisable ("vests") according to the following table provided it has not been terminated before such date in accordance with the provisions of this Option:
To exercise all or part of the Option you must deliver a "Notice of Exercise," in such form as the Company authorizes, along with payment as described herein of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes. You must pay the exercise price on the day you exercise the Option (a) in cash, (b) in whole shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value (the prior trading day's closing price), or (c) by delivering, with your Notice of Exercise, irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the amount of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes (a "cashless exercise"), unless you are an executive officer of the Company and such cashless exercise is prohibited by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If Stock is used to pay the exercise price ("swap transaction"), the Stock used (i) must have been owned by you for at least six months prior to the date of exercise or purchased by you in the open market; and (ii) must not have been used in a stock-for-stock swap transaction within the preceding six months. You shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option until you have exercised the Option for such Shares.
3. If your termination of employment is due to Retirement, your Option will immediately vest and become exercisable until the expiration date or until one year after your date of death, whichever occurs first. If you become permanently disabled while you are employed by Wells Fargo, then your entire Option is immediately vested and exercisable and will remain exercisable until one year after your date of death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first. If you die while you are employed by Wells Fargo, the entire Option is immediately vested and exercisable, and your Beneficiary as determined in accordance with the Plan may exercise the Option until one year after the date of your death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first.
Retirement, Disability, Death or Other Termination of Employment.
If you leave Wells Fargo's employment for any reason other than death, permanent disability, Retirement, or discharge for cause, you may exercise at any time within three (3) months after the date of termination that part of the Option which was exercisable on the date of termination. If you are discharged for cause, the Option will expire upon receipt by you of oral or written notice of termination.
4. The issuance of Shares upon the exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto, including withholding tax obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance. You agree to satisfy all withholding tax obligations applicable to the acquisition of Shares under the Option or the disposition of such Shares that the Company deems necessary. Income taxes are computed based on the difference between the Fair Market Value of the Shares acquired as of the date of exercise and the exercise price for those Shares. Taxes may be paid either in cash or, if you elect, by having the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued a number of Shares (valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise) necessary to satisfy the taxes. The Company is not obligated to exercise the Option and/or deliver the Shares until all payment obligations are met.
Compliance and Withholding Taxes.
5. Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under the Option will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under the Option, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of the Option may be exercised and received during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative.
Nontransferability of Option.
6. Nothing in this Agreement gives you any right to continued employment and Wells Fargo may terminate you at any time for any reason.
No Agreement for Wells Fargo to Continue Your Employment.
7. The Company may delay the exercise of the Option if it determines that (a) the Shares subject to the Option should be listed, registered or qualified on any securities exchange or under any law, or (b) the consent of a regulatory body is desirable.
General Restrictions.
8. This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement are used as defined in the Plan. If the Plan and this Agreement are inconsistent, provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company.
Additional Provisions and Interpretation of this Agreement.

Exhibit 99.1
NewsRelease
Corporate Communications
 
SAN FRANCISCO, June 27, 2006  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) today said that the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer, John G. Stumpf, has been elected to its Board of Directors.
"John brings to our Board almost a quarter of a century of leadership experience with our company, deep knowledge of our culture and our markets, and a strong commitment to teamwork and the quality of our customer experience across all our businesses," said Wells Fargo Chairman and CEO, Dick Kovacevich. "His contributions to the Board will enable us to make even more progress toward our vision of satisfying the financial needs of all our customers and helping them succeed financially."
Stumpf, named Wells Fargo's president and chief operating officer last August, joined the former Northwestern National Bank of Minneapolis, a subsidiary of the former Norwest Corporation, in 1982 as a vice president in loan administration. In May 1983, Northwestern National Bank of Minneapolis changed its name to Norwest Bank Minneapolis, N.A. He held a
number of management positions at Norwest Bank Minneapolis, N.A. and Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., before being named chairman and CEO of Norwest Bank Arizona in 1989. He became regional president for Norwest Banks in Greater Colorado/Arizona in 1991. From 1994 to 1998, he was regional president for Norwest Bank Texas. During his four years in that position, he led Norwest's acquisition of 30 Texas banks with total assets of more than $13 billion.
In 1998, with the merger of Norwest Corporation and Wells Fargo & Company, he became head of the Southwestern Banking Group (Arizona, New Mexico and Texas). Two years later he became head of the new Western Banking Group (Arizona, Colorado, Idaho, New Mexico, Nevada, Oregon, Utah, Texas, Washington, and Wyoming). In 2000, he led the integration of Wells Fargo's acquisition of the $23 billion First Security Corporation, based in Salt Lake City. In July 2002, he was named head of Community Banking, reporting to Kovacevich.
Stumpf, 52, is a native of Pierz, Minnesota, earned his bachelor's degree in accounting from St. Cloud State University (Minn.) and a master's degree in finance from the University of Minnesota. He serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors for Visa USA. He also serves on the Board of Directors for The Clearing House and the Bay Area chapter of Junior Achievement. Stumpf is also a member of the California Business Roundtable.
 
Stumpf joins on the Wells Fargo & Company Board:
Lloyd H. Dean, president and CEO of Catholic Healthcare West, San Francisco;
Susan E. Engel, chairwoman and CEO of Lenox Group Inc., Eden Prairie, Minn.;
Enrique Hernandez, Jr., chairman, president and CEO of Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc., Pasadena, Calif.;
Robert L. Joss, Philip H. Knight professor and dean of the Graduate School of Business at Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif.;
Richard M. Kovacevich, chairman and CEO of Wells Fargo & Company;
Richard D. McCormick, chairman emeritus of US WEST, Inc., Denver;
Cynthia H. Milligan, dean of the College of Business Administration at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln;
Nicholas G. Moore, retired global chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, New York;
Philip J. Quigley, retired chairman, president and CEO of Pacific Telesis Group, San Francisco;
Donald B. Rice, chairman, president and CEO of Agensys, Inc., Santa Monica, Calif.;
Judith M. Runstad, of counsel to Foster Pepper PLLC, Seattle;
Stephen W. Sanger, chairman and CEO of General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis;
Susan G. Swenson, former chief operating officer of T-Mobile USA, Inc., Bellevue, Wash.; and
Michael W. Wright, retired chairman and CEO of SUPERVALU INC., Eden Prairie, Minn.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $492 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance to more than 23 million customers from more than 6,200 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and elsewhere internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the United States to receive the highest possible credit rating, "Aaa," from Moody's Investors Service.
 

Exhibit 99.2
NewsRelease
Corporate Communications
 
SAN FRANCISCO, June 27, 2006  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) said today that its Board of Directors approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend on Wells Fargo common stock to 56 cents per share from 52 cents per share. The Board also approved a two-for-one stock split on Wells Fargo common stock in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend.
Both the cash dividend and the stock dividend are payable to stockholders of record at the close of business August 4, 2006. The stock dividend will be distributed August 11, 2006. The cash dividend of 56 cents is on a pre-split basis and will be paid September 1, 2006. As a result of the stock split, stockholders will receive one share of common stock for each share they held at the close of business on the August 4 record date. Stockholders will receive a direct registration (book entry) statement for the additional shares issued in the stock split. They will not need to exchange existing stock certificates. The company currently has about 1.7 billion shares of common stock outstanding.
"The combination of these two actions for our stockholders reflects the quality, consistency and strength of our operating and financial performance and the confidence we have in our team members' ability to continue to generate strong results by satisfying all our customers' financial needs and helping them succeed financially," said Wells Fargo's Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.
Atkins said this is the 19
th
consecutive year Wells Fargo has increased its dividend and its 24
th
dividend increase since 1987. Wells Fargo is among ten percent of the more than 10,000 North American-listed, dividend-paying, common stocks classified as a "Dividend Achiever"  a publicly traded company that has increased its dividends the last ten or more consecutive years. *
"Since 1988, Wells Fargo dividends have increased at a 16 percent compound annual growth rate," said Atkins, "with the Company's annual dividend payout now exceeding $3.7 billion, the 13th largest annual dividend of any public company in any industry in the U.S."
The two-for-one stock split declared by the Company's Board of Directors today is the eighth time Wells Fargo common stock has split in the past 47 years (2:1,10/97; 2:1, 6/93; 2:1, 7/89; 3:2, 6/88; 2:1, 5/77; 2:1, 3/69; 3:1, 3/59).
"This stock split will bring the price of Wells Fargo common stock to a level we believe is highly desirable to the widest range of investors," said Atkins.
 
 
"In turn, this should lead to an increase in and broadening of the ownership of the Company's stock, thus increasing the liquidity and marketability of our common stock."
The past 20 years, Wells Fargo achieved the second highest total stockholder return (up more than 3,900 percent) among all S&P 500 companies that were part of the S&P 500 20 years ago and still are part of the S&P 500 today. With dividends reinvested, Wells Fargo stock has increased 411 percent in value since June, 1996  a compound annual growth rate of 18 percent  compared to 229 percent for the Keefe Bruyette Woods bank index and 121 percent for the S&P 500 stock index.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $492 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance to more than 23 million customers from more than 6,200 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and elsewhere internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the United States to receive the highest possible credit rating, "Aaa," from Moody's Investors Service.
 


