FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20060718080049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 18, 2006, Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. The text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report. The information included in the press release is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company will include complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99
Second Quarter 2006 Highlights:
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record diluted earnings per common share of $1.23 for second quarter 2006, up 10 percent from $1.12 in second quarter 2005. Net income was a record $2.09 billion, up 9 percent from $1.91 billion in second quarter 2005. For the first half of 2006, diluted earnings per share were a record $2.42 and net income was a record $4.11 billion, up 10 percent and 9 percent, respectively, from the first half of 2005.
"The ability of our talented team to earn more of our customers' business enabled us to achieve another quarter of outstanding financial results  new records in cross-sell in both Community and Wholesale Banking, solid double-digit growth in revenue across many of our businesses, and double-digit growth in earnings per share," said Chairman and CEO Dick Kovacevich. "It now takes two hands to count our company-wide cross sell ratio. We're so confident in our team's ability to continue generating strong results that during the quarter we announced a dividend increase for the 19 consecutive year and our eighth stock split in 47 years. As good as these results are, it's important to step back and view them as part of a long track record of consistent success through many different economic and interest rate environments. For the past five, 10, 15 and 20 years our total stockholder return has been about double the S&P 500. In fact, over the past 20 years Wells Fargo achieved the second highest total stockholder return  more than 3,900 percent  among all companies that were part of the S&P 500 20 years ago and still are part of the S&P 500 today. We also earned more recognition nationally this quarter for our community involvement, as one of only five companies nationwide honored for volunteerism and community service by the national Points of Light Foundation."
th
Diluted earnings per share were a record $1.23, up 10 percent from $1.12 in second quarter 2005 and up 13 percent (annualized) from $1.19 in first quarter 2006, driven by solid double-digit revenue growth of 12 percent from a year ago and 11 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Second quarter 2006 results included $250 million of pre-tax losses ($.10 per share) on adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) and debt securities sold during the quarter to further improve long-term earning asset yields. The results also included $28 million of stock option expense ($.01 per share) that was not in last year's results. "Once again, earnings growth was broad based, with many of our 80 plus businesses achieving double-digit profit and revenue growth," said Senior EVP and Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins.
Financial Performance
Revenue of $8.8 billion grew $924 million, or 12 percent, from a year ago and was up $234 million, or 11 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. "Our strong 12 percent revenue growth was achieved despite taking $250 million of losses on the sale of ARMs and debt securities this quarter compared with negligible gains on the sale of debt securities in second quarter 2005," said Atkins. "This reduced reported year-over-year revenue growth by 3 percentage points. Our operating businesses continued to generate exceptionally strong double-digit revenue growth on both a linked-quarter and year-over-year basis because of strong growth in both interest and fee income, including double-digit revenue growth in regional banking, credit and debit cards, private client services, internet services, home mortgage, corporate trust, consumer finance, asset-based lending, asset management, commercial real estate, Eastdil Secured, international trade services and commercial banking."
Revenue
 
Average loans of $300.4 billion increased $4.8 billion from second quarter 2005 and declined $10.7 billion on a linked-quarter basis due to the sale of the $26 billion of ARMs during the second quarter. Excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages  the loan category affected by the sale of ARMs  total average loans grew by $29.3 billion, or 14 percent, from second quarter 2005 and 15 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis.
Loans
Average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $12.1 billion, or 12 percent, from second quarter 2005 and increased $3.6 billion, or 13 percent (annualized), from first quarter 2006  the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit, linked-quarter growth. Small business direct, middle market, corporate, commercial real estate and trade finance loans all experienced solid growth due to continued market share gains and some increases in line utilization.
Average consumer loans decreased $9.2 billion from second quarter 2005 and declined $14.6 billion on a linked-quarter basis due to the sale of ARMs. Excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages, average consumer loans increased $15.3 billion, or 14 percent, from the prior year and increased $4.7 billion, or 16 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Real estate 1-4 family junior liens, credit card, and other revolving credit and installment loans grew at double-digit rates from second quarter 2005.
Average core deposits of $257.7 billion grew $19.4 billion, or 8 percent, from second quarter 2005, and increased $3.7 billion, or 6 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $17.6 billion, up $1.5 billion from second quarter 2005 and up $2.1 billion on a linked-quarter basis. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 8 percent from second quarter 2005 and 3 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Average retail core deposits grew $14.8 billion, or 7 percent, from second quarter 2005 and increased $667 million, or 1 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Average consumer checking account balances grew $5.8 billion, or 11 percent, from second quarter 2005 and $2.3 billion, or 16 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis.
Deposits
Net interest income increased 10 percent from a year ago and 9 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Solid growth in net interest income again was driven by continued growth in high-quality earning assets and solid core deposit growth. "With short-term interest rates now above 5 percent, our cumulative sales of ARMs and debt securities over the last two years also continued to add to net interest income," said Atkins. "With the sale of $26 billion of ARMs this quarter, we completed our program of selling ARMs. In addition, taking advantage of market volatility during the quarter, we sold our lowest-yielding debt securities and, for the first time, significantly added to our portfolio of long-term debt securities at yields of approximately 6.25 percent  nearly 200 basis points higher than the cyclical low in yields. While the ARM sales program and continued solid growth in core deposits  particularly double-digit growth in low-cost checking accounts  positively impacted the net interest margin in the second quarter, our even higher growth in earning assets  including the securities purchased in the quarter  accounted for all of the 9 basis point linked-quarter decline in our net interest margin. Our second quarter net interest margin of 4.76 percent remained one of the highest in banking."
Net Interest Income
 
Noninterest income increased $476 million, or 14 percent, from second quarter 2005 and 13 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. This double-digit growth reflected strong year-over-year growth in deposit service charges (up 6 percent); trust and investment fees (up 13 percent); debit and credit card fees (up 16 percent); and other fees, largely loan-related (up 7 percent). Mortgage banking noninterest income rose $498 million from second quarter 2005 due to business growth and an increase in the value of mortgage servicing net of hedging costs. Gains on sales of mortgage loans increased $109 million, largely due to higher mortgage originations, despite the $94 million loss on the previously mentioned sale of ARMs compared with a $24 million loss a year ago. Servicing fees grew from $593 million to $820 million largely due to a 34 percent increase in the portfolio of mortgage loans serviced for others. The change in the value of mortgage servicing rights net of economic hedging results in second quarter 2006  a quarter in which interest rates increased  was $17 million. The comparable interest rate-related effect (impairment provision net of hedging results) in second quarter 2005  a quarter in which interest rates declined  was a loss of $199 million.
Noninterest Income
Noninterest expense was up $622 million from second quarter 2005 and up $102 million from first quarter 2006. Noninterest expense included $28 million, or $.01 a share, in stock option expense as required under FAS 123(R). "Expense growth continued to be focused on building our business  particularly distribution  and improving customer service," said Atkins. "In the last 12 months, we've opened 129 new regional banking stores, including 26 stores this quarter. We've grown our sales and service force by adding 5,700 FTEs, including 551 retail bankers in second quarter 2006. Among other investments for growth, we've invested heavily in improving ATMs and online banking to enhance our customer experience and we're developing a common systems platform for all of our consumer credit products which will increase cross-sell opportunities and improve operating efficiencies."
Noninterest Expense
"Second quarter credit results reflected continued solid performance across our diverse range of loan portfolios," said Chief Credit Officer Mike Loughlin. Net charge-offs for second quarter 2006 were $432 million (.58 percent of average loans outstanding, annualized), compared with $433 million (.56 percent) in first quarter 2006 and $454 million (.62 percent) in second quarter 2005. "We continued to have very low commercial losses and consumer losses remain at historically low levels, affected by continued low bankruptcy filings, low unemployment rates, and relatively stable residential real estate values," said Loughlin. "We believe our allowance for credit losses of $4.04 billion was adequate to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolios at June 30, 2006."
Credit Quality
Total nonperforming assets were $1.92 billion (.64 percent of total loans) at June 30, 2006, compared with $1.85 billion (.60 percent) at March 31, 2006 and $1.39 billion (.46 percent) at June 30, 2005. Foreclosed assets, a component of total nonperforming assets, included an additional $238 million and $227 million of foreclosed real estate securing Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans at June 30, 2006, and March 31, 2006, respectively, due to a change in regulatory reporting requirements effective January 1, 2006. These assets are fully collectible because the corresponding GNMA loans are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. These GNMA loans totaling $238 million added 8 basis points to the ratio of nonperforming assets to loans in the second quarter. "Wholesale nonperformers remained very low, reflecting the solid
 
financial strength of our borrowers at this point in the business cycle," said Loughlin. "Consumer nonperforming assets have gradually increased as our loan portfolios grow and season but remained within expected ranges. We monitor these trends and execute strategies to manage the composition and level of consumer nonperforming assets."
Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial.
Business Segment Performance
"Our outstanding team achieved strong results in the majority of our over 80 businesses," said President and Chief Operating Officer John Stumpf. "Our businesses continued to partner to satisfy all of our customers' financial needs, which resulted in record cross-sell ratios for both consumer and wholesale customers. Our lending businesses remained strong, with our seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit, linked-quarter commercial and commercial real estate loan growth. It was a competitive environment for deposits, but the number of transaction accounts, both business and consumer, continued to grow at a solid pace. Growth at our consumer finance company remained strong, with sound credit quality. We continued to make investments that will benefit our customers and our company: opening consumer and commercial banking stores, adding new and better technology to speed customer service for our stores and call centers, and rolling out innovative products and services such as envelope-free deposits at ATMs and for our commercial customers."
Desktop Deposit
More financial information about the business segments is on pages 25 and 26.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
 
Community Banking reported net income of $1.34 billion, up 8 percent from $1.24 billion in second quarter 2005. Revenue grew 12 percent compared with the same period of 2005. Net interest income increased $200 million from second quarter 2005, primarily due to growth in earning assets. Noninterest income was up $406 million compared with the same period last year, predominately due to higher mortgage banking revenue, partially offset by losses on sale of debt securities. Noninterest expense increased $419 million, or 14 percent, compared with second quarter 2005 due primarily to an increase in the number of team members, as well as investments in new banking stores, ATMs and online banking.
Regional Banking Highlights
"Thanks to the talent, commitment, and hard work of our great team, Regional Banking achieved record-breaking second quarter solutions (sales) performance, including a 15 percent increase in core product sales over the same period last year," said Carrie Tolstedt, Group EVP, Regional Banking. "As a result of our long-standing sales and service culture and our belief in people as a competitive advantage, we achieved an important milestone with a record high of 5.0 products per consumer (retail bank household). In second quarter, more than 58 percent of new checking account customers purchased  a checking account and at least three other products. Our focus on the customer experience includes 50,000 store-based customer surveys per month. For customers transacting at the teller line, customer loyalty scores have improved 20 percent, and welcoming and wait time has improved 28 percent, since January 2004 when we began the surveys. During this same timeframe, high value household attrition has improved 14 percent, and retail bank household profitability has improved 24 percent. In addition, to better serve our customers, we opened 26 banking stores,
Wells Fargo Packages
 
added 50 net new webATMs, and announced plans to convert 400 ATMs in Northern California to WebATM machines by the end of 2006."
Envelope-Free
SM
Home Mortgage and Home Equity Highlights
"Our residential real estate lending businesses continued their strong performance with double-digit growth in the owned servicing portfolio and originations over the same period last year," said Mark Oman, senior EVP, Home and Consumer Finance. "Originations were $116 billion, up 36 percent from last year, as we took advantage of market opportunities in the correspondent channel." At quarter end, the mortgage servicing rights asset was valued at $15.8 billion, or 1.55 percent of loans serviced for others, compared with $8.5 billion, or 1.12 percent at June 30, 2005 and $13.9 billion, or 1.50 percent, at March 31, 2006.
The National Home Equity Group portfolio was $76 billion as of June 30, 2006. The credit quality of this portfolio remained very strong, with nonaccrual loans at $312 million, or .41 percent of the portfolio, and annualized net loss rates of 9 basis points, compared with 9 basis points in second quarter 2005 and 13 basis points in first quarter 2006.
,
Wholesale Banking
serves customers coast to coast
including middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, capital markets activities, and institutional investments.
"Our customers continued to appreciate our relationship banking model and broad product line," said Dave Hoyt, senior EVP, Wholesale Banking. "Wholesale customers have
 
5.9 products per customer, up from 5.7 at the end of 2005. Our commercial banking customers have an average of more than 7 products."We continue to broaden our ability to satisfy all the financial needs of our commercial real estate customers and gain new customers with the pending acquisition of Reilly Mortgage Group. The combined organization will provide financing to owners and operators of multi-family properties through the lending programs of Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and FHA. Consistent with the Company's strategic initiative to grow its trust and investment-related business, we acquired LaSalle Bank's employee benefit trust business. We gained approximately 350 employee benefit plans with $12.4 billion of assets under management."
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $523 million, up 7 percent from a year ago. Revenue was $1.79 billion, up 12 percent from second quarter 2005 driven by strong asset management, insurance and foreign exchange revenue, along with the acquisition of Secured Capital, partially offset by lower capital markets revenue. Noninterest expense was up 16 percent from the prior year, primarily due to higher personnel related expenses, along with higher expenses from the Secured Capital acquisition. Average loans increased 15 percent to $70.4 billion from second quarter 2005, with particular strength in our real estate and asset-based lending businesses.
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer installment and home equity lending, automobile financing, consumer and private-label credit cards and commercial services to consumers and businesses throughout the United States and in Canada, Latin America, the Caribbean, Guam and Saipan.
"Our net income of $230 million, up 28 percent from a year ago, was largely due to strong, double-digit growth in our lending businesses," said Tom Shippee, Wells Fargo Financial president and CEO. "The business has achieved solid growth across the board, although residential real estate lending has slowed compared with 2005 levels because of the rising interest rate environment. While we experienced an increase in delinquencies, our loans continued to perform within our pricing expectations.
 
"The launch of the program for our auto dealer customers provides them with retail financing and leasing options to meet all of the dealers' automotive financing needs across the credit spectrum from prime to nonprime  a major milestone in integrating the former Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance and Wells Fargo Bank's Auto Finance Group. During the quarter, we also completed the integration of our consumer and auto stores, which gives us a single-store network of 1,031 locations in the U.S. where we can offer consumers real-state secured lending and direct auto lending."
Spectrum Pricing
Wells Fargo Financial reported net income of $230 million, compared with $180 million in second quarter 2005. For the first six months of 2006, net income was $510 million, which included a first quarter $127 million pre-tax gain from the sale of Island Finance's operations in Puerto Rico, compared with $232 million for the same period a year ago, which included a first quarter $163 million pre-tax charge to conform Wells Fargo Financial's charge-off practices with Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council guidelines. Revenue was $1.28 billion, up 11 percent from $1.16 billion in second quarter 2005. Average loans increased 24 percent to $56.1 billion from $45.1 billion a year ago. Noninterest expense increased 10 percent to $673 million primarily due to additional investments in the collections, underwriting and service teams as a result of the growth of the business.
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results will be available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through July 21, 2006. Dial 877-660-6853 (domestic) or 201-612-7415 (international). Enter the account number 286 and conference ID 206866. The call is also available on the internet at and .
Recorded Message
www.wellsfargo.com/ir
http://www.vcall.com/IC/CEPage.asp?ID=106337
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company, including statements about future credit losses and credit quality. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. For factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, including "Risk Factors" in each report.
Any factor described in this news release or in any document referred to in this news release could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $500 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance to more than 23 million customers from more than 6,200 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and elsewhere internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the United States to receive the highest possible credit rating, "Aaa," from Moody's Investors Service.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
Effective January 1, 2006, upon adoption of FAS 156, we remeasured our residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) at fair value and recognized a pre-tax adjustment of $158 million to residential MSRs and recorded a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment of $101 million (after-tax) to the 2006 beginning balance of retained earnings in our Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity. The table below reconciles the December 31, 2005, and the January 1, 2006, balance of MSRs.
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA


