FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20060418080117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 18, 2006, Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report. The information included in the press release is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company will include complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended March 31, 2006, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
       
       
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99
          
*As a result of a change in regulatory reporting requirements effective January 1, 2006, $227 million of foreclosed real estate securing Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) loans has been classified as nonperforming. These assets are fully collectible because the corresponding GNMA loans are insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veteran Affairs.
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record diluted earnings per common share of $1.19 for first quarter 2006, compared with $1.08 in first quarter 2005, up 10 percent. Net income was a record $2.02 billion, up 9 percent from $1.86 billion in first quarter 2005.
"Driven by our time-tested vision and business model  to satisfy all our customers' financial needs and help them succeed financially  this was a milestone quarter for our outstanding team, not just because they again delivered double-digit growth in earnings per share, but because we surpassed $2 billion in quarterly earnings for the first time in our Company's history," said Chairman and CEO Dick Kovacevich. "It wasn't that long ago that we made only $2 billion in an entire year. Revenue growth, our industry's single most important measure of long-term success, was six percent and the combined revenue of our businesses other than Home Mortgage grew at a strong double-digit pace, up 17 percent. Our mortgage business for the first time exceeded $1 trillion in owned servicing and continued to be, as it has been since 1992, the nation's largest retail mortgage originator. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency rated Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. Outstanding' for Community Reinvestment, the highest possible rating, earned by fewer than one of every five national banks  and magazine ranked Wells Fargo America's #1 Most Admired' large bank."
Fortune
Diluted earnings per share were a record $1.19, up 10 percent from $1.08 in first quarter 2005 and up 18 percent (annualized) from $1.14 in fourth quarter 2005. First quarter results for the first time were reduced by $52 million, or $.02 per share, for expensing stock options required under FAS 123R. Due to the $33 million immediate expensing of stock options for retirement-eligible team members, the $.02 per share for stock option expense in first quarter was $.01 per share more than the Company's expected $.01 per share quarterly option expense for the remainder of 2006.
Financial Performance
During first quarter 2006, the Company adopted fair value accounting for mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), which resulted in an addition to equity of $158 million pre-tax ($101 million after-tax). This was offset by $184 million in net MSRs valuation losses recorded in earnings (higher MSRs valuation during the quarter less economic hedging losses in a rising rate environment). The interest rate effect on the fair value of mortgage servicing during the quarter, therefore, was negligible, although part of the MSRs fair value change  the $158 million pre-tax increase  was booked directly to the equity account and part  the $184 million net MSRs valuation loss  was recorded as a charge to earnings. As previously announced, the Company sold Island Finance's operations in Puerto Rico, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $127 million.
"We're very pleased with our first quarter results," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "They reflect a continuation of the same trends we've seen for many quarters now  double-digit earnings growth, with net income exceeding $2.0 billion for the first time ever. We had solid, broad-based, and, in many businesses, accelerating revenue growth, with revenue in businesses other than Home Mortgage up a combined 17 percent from a year ago and up 20 percent (annualized) from fourth quarter 2005. Our net interest margin was stable and reflected our success in growing core deposits as well as actions we took in 2005 and in first quarter 2006 to shed lower-yielding assets and boost earning asset yields. Credit quality was exceptionally strong and we continued to invest for future growth by adding more sales people, more stores, new technology and by sales, at a loss, of investment securities and low-
 
yielding ARMs. Many of our businesses achieved double-digit, year-over-year profit growth, including businesses that serve our retail and small business customers in Community Banking  our regional banking groups, credit card, business direct, education financial services, and corporate trust; businesses that serve mid-sized and large corporations in Wholesale Banking  commercial banking, asset management, commercial real estate, international trade services, insurance, Eastdil Secured and specialized financial services; and our consumer finance business, Wells Fargo Financial."
Revenue of $8.6 billion for first quarter 2006 grew $466 million, or 6 percent, from a year ago. Home Mortgage revenue declined $665 million from $1.5 billion in first quarter 2005 to $853 million in first quarter 2006. Combined revenue of businesses other than Home Mortgage grew 17 percent from first quarter 2005 to $7.7 billion in first quarter 2006. "Revenue growth was broad based and included double-digit, year-over-year growth in regional banking, Wells Fargo Financial, and many of our wholesale/commercial businesses," said Atkins. Revenue growth was driven by continued growth in average loans (up 8 percent in total year-over-year and up 17 percent excluding real estate 1-4 family loans) and in average core deposits (up 10 percent year-over-year), a stable net interest margin and growth in assets under management, up 16 percent year-over-year.
Revenue
On a linked-quarter basis, total revenue was up 3 percent (annualized). Home Mortgage revenue declined $296 million from $1.15 billion in fourth quarter 2005 largely due to the net MSRs valuation loss that went through earnings. Combined revenue of businesses other than Home Mortgage grew 20 percent (annualized) from fourth quarter 2005, with virtually every business achieving accelerated sales and revenue growth on a linked-quarter basis.
Average loans of $311.1 billion in first quarter 2006 increased 8 percent from first quarter 2005 and 7 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages  the loan category affected by the sale of $51 billion of ARMs since the beginning of 2005  total average loans grew by $34.1 billion, or 17 percent, from first quarter 2005 and 13 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis.
Loans
Average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $11.4 billion, or 11 percent, from first quarter 2005 and increased $2.6 billion, or 10 percent (annualized), from fourth quarter 2005  the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit, linked-quarter growth. Commercial loan growth was broad based across most of the Company's businesses, including small business direct, middle market, commercial real estate, asset-based lending, trade finance and specialized financial services.
Average consumer loans increased $10.8 billion, or 6 percent, from first quarter 2005 (up 21 percent excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages), and grew $2.1 billion, or 5 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis (up 14 percent excluding 1-4 family first mortgages). Home equity, credit card, and other revolving credit and installment loans grew at double-digit rates (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Linked-quarter loan growth was also reduced by the sale of Island Finance's operations in Puerto Rico, which had $636 million in receivables.
 
"The continued strong growth in core deposits and checking accounts was a result of strong new account growth and improved customer retention rates," said Atkins. Average core deposits of $254.0 billion for first quarter 2006 grew $22.2 billion, or 10 percent, from first quarter 2005, and increased $626 million on a linked-quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $15.5 billion for first quarter 2006, up $1.6 billion from first quarter 2005 and down $2.2 billion from fourth quarter 2005. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 9 percent from first quarter 2005 and 5 percent (annualized) from fourth quarter 2005. Average retail core deposits grew $20.3 billion, or 11 percent, from first quarter 2005 and increased $2.1 billion, or 4 percent (annualized), from fourth quarter 2005. Average consumer checking account balances grew 11 percent from first quarter 2005 and 15 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis.
Deposits
"A modest linked-quarter decline in business checking account balances occurred since business customers can maintain lower compensating balances at higher interest rates," said Atkins. "The decline may also be the first sign of companies using their cash balances to grow their business, which is consistent with the small business loan growth we continued to experience."
Net interest income for first quarter 2006 increased 9 percent from a year ago, due to 9 percent growth in average earning assets and a relatively stable net interest margin. Net interest income increased 3 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis due to 7 percent growth (annualized) in average earning assets and a 1 basis point increase in net interest margin to 4.85 percent, partially offset by fewer days. "Despite the flat to inverted yield curve during the quarter, our stable margin reflected our ability to continue to grow checking and savings deposits and the benefit of our continued focus on balance sheet repositioning actions including the sale of our lowest yielding ARMs and debt securities," said Atkins.
Net Interest Income
Noninterest income increased $49 million, or 1 percent, from first quarter 2005. Excluding mortgage banking, noninterest income increased 16 percent from first quarter 2005, reflecting strong year-over-year growth in deposit service charges, up 8 percent; trust and investment fees, up 10 percent; other fees, largely loan-related, up 8 percent; insurance, up 8 percent; equity investments, up $119 million; and the $127 million gain related to the sale of Island Finance's operations in Puerto Rico. First quarter noninterest income also included $9 million in losses related to the sale of ARMs and $35 million in net bond losses related to repositioning for higher bond yields in our corporate and Home Mortgage portfolios. Mortgage banking noninterest income declined $399 million due to the $184 million net MSRs valuation loss that was recorded to earnings ($522 million fair value gain less $706 million hedging loss), compared with a $271 million valuation allowance release (income) and $85 million hedge gain in first quarter 2005.
Noninterest Income
Noninterest expense was up $382 million from first quarter 2005 and up $191 million from fourth quarter 2005. "Expense growth both year-over-year and linked-quarter was primarily driven by continued investment in our businesses, both additional sales personnel and new stores," said Atkins. During the quarter, the Company opened 23 regional banking stores, 2 commercial banking offices, renovated 72 banking stores and added 425 retail bankers. Noninterest expense included $52 million, or $.02 a share, in stock option expense as required
Noninterest Expense
 
under FAS 123R, and $23 million of incremental technology investments and integration expense. Home Mortgage expenses were down 8 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis reflecting the Company's ability to reduce expenses as first mortgage originations declined in the quarter.
"First quarter credit results were strong and continued to show excellent performance across all our loan portfolios," said Chief Credit Officer Dave Munio. Residential real estate credit performance remained strong and wholesale portfolios continued to experience historically low loss rates. Net charge-offs for first quarter 2006 were $433 million (.56 percent of average loans outstanding, annualized), compared with $703 million (.91 percent) during fourth quarter 2005, which included $171 million (.22 percent) for incremental bankruptcies above normalized levels, and $585 million (.83 percent) during first quarter 2005, which included $163 million (.23 percent) related to changes in loss recognition rules at Wells Fargo Financial to conform to Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council bank standards for recognizing credit losses. After the October 2005 legislation change, personal bankruptcy levels fell significantly below historic run rates and have remained at this low level during first quarter 2006. "We continue to work with our customers affected by Hurricane Katrina. We believe our allowance for loan losses at March 31, 2006, was adequate," said Munio.
Credit Quality
Total nonperforming assets were $1.85 billion (.60 percent of total loans) at March 31, 2006, compared with $1.53 billion (.49 percent) at year-end 2005 and $1.41 billion (.48 percent) at March 31, 2005. Foreclosed assets, a component of total nonperforming assets, included an additional $227 million of foreclosed real estate securing GNMA loans in first quarter 2006, due to a change in regulatory reporting requirements effective January 1, 2006. These assets are fully collectible because the corresponding GNMA loans are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. The remaining quarterly increase in nonperforming assets was a natural consequence of continued growth in several of the Company's residential real estate and automobile portfolios. Commercial and commercial real estate nonperforming assets decreased $187 million from a year ago.
Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. Net income for each of the three business segments was:
Business Segment Performance
More financial information about the business segments is on page 24.
 
Community Banking
offers a complete line of banking and diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
"Demonstrating the benefit of our diversified business model, most of our consumer business showed strong growth this quarter and helped to offset the decline at Home Mortgage," said President and COO John Stumpf. "Our outstanding team continues to make very solid progress in many of our measures of the quality of the experience we provide our customers. We survey 30,000 of our customers each month and have seen meaningful improvement in customer loyalty scores, which leads directly to improved cross-sell ratios and improved customer retention."
Community Banking reported net income of $1.21 billion, down 11 percent from first quarter 2005 due to a decline in Home Mortgage net income. Net interest income increased $165 million, or 5 percent, compared with first quarter 2005, due primarily to growth in earning assets and deposits. Despite a flat yield curve, the net interest margin remained stable due to continued balance sheet repositioning. Earning assets grew despite sales of low-yielding ARMs and debt securities. Noninterest income decreased $232 million, or 10 percent, compared with first quarter 2005, due primarily to lower mortgage banking revenue, partially offset by higher equity investment gains and higher deposit service charges and card fees.
Regional Banking Highlights
 
"Our talented and dedicated team achieved another record breaking solutions (sales) performance in first quarter, including an 18 percent increase in core product sales over the same period last year," said Carrie Tolstedt, Group EVP, Regional Banking. "We achieved core sales per platform banker FTE of 5.18 per day, up from 5.02 in the prior year. More than 56 percent of new checking account customers purchased Wells Fargo Packages a checking account and at least three other products. As a result of these strong sales, customer cross-sell reached a record high of 4.9 products per consumer (retail bank household). To better serve our customers and help them succeed financially, we opened 23 banking stores and added 358 platform banker FTEs during the quarter, and increased the number of licensed bankers by 39 percent over the prior year."
SM
Home Mortgage and Home Equity Highlights
"Interest rates rose significantly over the prior year, but, thanks to our outstanding team, our origination volumes were up 40 percent from the first quarter of 2005," said Mark Oman, senior EVP, Home and Consumer Finance Group. "While we have seen a slow down in refinancing activity, the purchase market where we are the leading lender remained historically strong. We also saw double-digit growth in our trillion dollar owned servicing portfolio. This portfolio, which has an average note rate of 5.75 percent, provides cross sell and retention opportunities to over 5.6 million customers."
The National Home Equity Group portfolio was $73 billion as of March 31, 2006. The credit quality of this portfolio remained very strong.
 
,
Wholesale Banking
serves customers coast to coast
including middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, capital markets activities and institutional investments.
"We achieved another quarter of strong, broad-based loan growth across our business lines, with average loans up 14 percent from a year ago," said Dave Hoyt, senior EVP, Wholesale Banking. "In January we acquired Secured Capital Corp to create Eastdil Secured, L.L.C. one of the country's most active firms in investment property sales, debt placement and commercial mortgage loan sales. Eastdil Secured will also engage in investment banking nationwide and raise private equity through its broker dealer affiliate. We also agreed to acquire the Virginia-based factoring company Commerce Funding Corporation, a leading provider of financing to government contractors. To further expand our national presence, we added a middle-market banking office in Buffalo, New York and a commercial real estate office in Nashville, Tennessee, giving us 222 wholesale offices east of the Mississippi River.
"We processed as many checks during the quarter using  our Check 21 internetsolution  as we did in the last half of 2005, a very rapid adoption by our customers of our industry-leading service. In the eight months we've offered this service, customers have used our image technology to electronically deposit almost 4 million checks directly from their own offices."
Desktop Deposit
SM
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $528 million and revenue of $1.78 billion, both up 17 percent from a year ago. Revenue growth was due to increased earning assets, a wider net interest margin, strong growth in the capital markets-related businesses, underwriting gains in the crop insurance business and additional revenue from the Secured Capital acquisition. Average loans grew 14 percent to $67.6 billion and average core deposits were up 1 percent to $25.9 billion. Noninterest expense was $992 million, up 18 percent from first quarter 2005, driven by staffing, merit and incentive increases and additional expenses from the Secured Capital acquisition.
 
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer loans primarily through real estate-secured debt consolidation products, automobile financing, consumer and private-label credit cards and commercial services to consumers and businesses throughout the United States and in Canada, Latin America, the Caribbean, and the Pacific Rim.
"Our record net income of $280 million for the quarter was driven by the consistent customer focus and commitment of our 20,000 team members, outstanding performance in auto lending and real estate-secured lending, and the sale of our Island Finance operations in Puerto Rico," said Tom Shippee, Wells Fargo Financial president and CEO. "Our dramatic increase over first quarter 2005 earnings was partly due to the $163 million charge in the first quarter last year to conform Wells Fargo Financial's charge-off practices with Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council guidelines. We had lower bankruptcy charge-offs and higher recoveries in the first quarter, reflecting the changes in federal bankruptcy legislation in October 2005."
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results will be available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through April 21, 2006. Dial 877-660-6853 (domestic) or 201-612-7415 (international). Enter the account number 286 and conference ID 198255. The call is also available on the internet at and .
Recorded Message
www.wellsfargo.com/ir
www.vcall.com
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company, including statements about the expected impact of expensing stock options on our 2006 quarterly earnings per share and various statements about future credit losses and credit quality, including the impact of Hurricane Katrina. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations, including the possibility that assumptions used to estimate the expected quarterly
 
option expense for the remainder of 2006 are wrong or may change. For other factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, including information incorporated into the Form 10-K from our 2005 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13 to the Form 10-K.
Hurricane Katrina has affected the Company's loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to repay their loans. The ultimate impact of the hurricane on the Company is difficult to predict and will be affected by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the collateral, the extent to which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by the hurricane adversely affect the ability of borrowers to repay their loans, and the cost to us of collection and foreclosure moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted to borrowers and other customers. The impact of the hurricane on the Company may be greater than anticipated.
Any factor described in this news release or in any document referred to in this news release could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $492 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance to more than 23 million customers from more than 6,200 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and elsewhere internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the United States to receive the highest possible credit rating, "Aaa," from Moody's Investors Service.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
 
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
 
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
Effective January 1, 2006, upon adoption of FAS 156, we re-measured our residential mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) at fair value and recognized a pre-tax adjustment of $158 million to residential MSRs and recorded a corresponding cumulative effect adjustment of $101 million (after-tax) to the 2006 beginning balance of retained earnings in our Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity. The table below reconciles the December 31, 2005, and the January 1, 2006, balance of MSRs.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION AND SERVICING DATA


