FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20060306122042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 28, 2006, the Human Resources Committee of the Company's Board of Directors approved incentive compensation awards in the form of cash bonuses to be paid under the Company's Performance-Based Compensation Policy to the Company's chief executive officer and the five next highest paid executive officers for the year ended December 31, 2005. The following table shows the amount of these awards, together with the base salaries for these executive officers effective March 5, 2006, as determined by the Committee on February 28, 2006.
 
Also on February 28, 2006, the Committee approved grants of stock options to these executive officers pursuant to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and the form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(a) to this report and incorporated herein by this reference, as follows: Mr. Kovacevich  903,230 shares; Mr. Stumpf  387,100 shares; Mr. Hoyt  354,840 shares; Mr. Oman  354,840 shares; Mr. Atkins  290,330 shares; and Ms. Tolstedt  225,810 shares. The exercise price of the stock options is $64.49 per share, the closing price of the Company's common stock on February 27, 2006.
Item 1.02 Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
Richard M. Kovacevich, chairman and chief executive officer, and the Company were parties to an agreement dated March 18, 1991, as amended effective January 1, 1995 (the "Agreement"), which entitled Mr. Kovacevich to receive certain severance payments and benefits from the Company if his employment was terminated by the Company for a reason other than for cause or if his job duties were substantially reduced and he resigned within 90 days thereafter. These severance provisions were agreed to by the parties in connection with Mr. Kovacevich's initial employment by the Company in 1986. At Mr. Kovacevich's request, the parties mutually agreed to cancel the Agreement pursuant to a Cancellation Agreement effective as of February 28, 2006. Under the Cancellation Agreement, neither the Company nor Mr. Kovacevich has any further rights, obligations or liabilities to the other under the Agreement. Nothing in the Cancellation Agreement, however, affects or changes in any way Mr. Kovacevich's right to receive salary continuation pay or other compensation and benefits pursuant to the Company's Salary Continuation Pay Plan or as may be approved at the time by the Company's Board of Directors. The Cancellation Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10(b) to this report and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On February 28, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors elected Nicholas G. Moore a director of the Company. Mr. Moore has not yet been appointed to any committees of the Board but is expected to be appointed to the Board's Finance and Audit and Examination Committees in April 2006 when the Board will appoint all committees for the following year. Mr. Moore is the retired global chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, a professional services firm. The Company's press release announcing Mr. Moore's election to the Board is furnished with this report as Exhibit 99.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10(a)
 
1. Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") has granted to you an option ("Option") to purchase shares (the "Shares") of Wells Fargo & Company common stock ("Common Stock"). The Option is granted subject in all respects to the terms of the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").
Grant of Option.
            
2. The term of this Option commences on 02/28/2006 and, except as provided in paragraph 3 below, ends on 02/28/2016, provided you are continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate ("Wells Fargo"). If your employment with Wells Fargo is terminated, the Option may be exercised only as described in paragraph 3 below.
Term, Vesting and Exercise of Option.
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, this Option becomes exercisable ("vests") according to the following table provided it has not been terminated before such date in accordance with the provisions of this Option:
To exercise all or part of the Option you must deliver a "Notice of Exercise," in such form as the Company authorizes, along with payment as described herein of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes. You must pay the exercise price on the day you exercise the Option (a) in cash, (b) in whole shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value (the prior trading day's closing price), or (c) by delivering, with your Notice of Exercise, irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the amount of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes (a "cashless exercise"), unless you are an executive officer of the Company and such cashless exercise is prohibited by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If Stock is used to pay the exercise price ("swap transaction"), the Stock used (i) must have been owned by you for at least six months prior to the date of exercise or purchased by you in the open market; and (ii) must not have been used in a stock-for-stock swap transaction within the preceding six months. You shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option until you have exercised the Option for such Shares.
3. If your termination of employment is due to Retirement, your Option will immediately vest and become exercisable until the expiration date or until one year after your date of death, whichever occurs first. If you become permanently disabled while you are employed by Wells Fargo, then your entire Option is immediately vested and exercisable and will remain exercisable until one year after your date of death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first. If you die while you are employed by Wells Fargo, the entire Option is immediately vested and exercisable, and your Beneficiary as determined in accordance with the Plan may exercise the Option until one year after the date of your death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first.
Retirement, Disability, Death or Other Termination of Employment.
If you leave Wells Fargo's employment for any reason other than death, permanent disability, Retirement, or discharge for cause, you may exercise at any time within three (3) months after the date of termination that part of the Option which was exercisable on the date of termination. If you are discharged for cause, the Option will expire upon receipt by you of oral or written notice of termination.
4. The issuance of Shares upon the exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto, including withholding tax obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance. You agree to satisfy all withholding tax obligations applicable to the acquisition of Shares under the Option or the disposition of such Shares that the Company deems necessary. Income taxes are computed based on the difference between the Fair Market Value of the Shares acquired as of the date of exercise and the exercise price for those Shares. Taxes may be paid either in cash or, if you elect, by having the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued a number of Shares (valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise) necessary to satisfy the taxes. The Company is not obligated to exercise the Option and/or deliver the Shares until all payment obligations are met.
Compliance and Withholding Taxes.
5. Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under the Option will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under the Option, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of the Option may be exercised and received during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative.
Nontransferability of Option.
6. Nothing in this Agreement gives you any right to continued employment and Wells Fargo may terminate you at any time for any reason.
No Agreement for Wells Fargo to Continue Your Employment.
7. The Company may delay the exercise of the Option if it determines that (a) the Shares subject to the Option should be listed, registered or qualified on any securities exchange or under any law, or (b) the consent of a regulatory body is desirable.
General Restrictions.
8.This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement are used as defined in the Plan. If the Plan and this Agreement are inconsistent, provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company.
Additional Provisions and Interpretation of this Agreement.

Exhibit 10(b)
THIS CANCELLATION AGREEMENT (the "Agreement"), effective as of February 28, 2006, is by and between Wells Fargo & Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), and Richard M. Kovacevich (the "Executive").
The Corporation and the Executive are parties to a letter agreement, dated March 18, 1991, as amended effective January 1, 1995 (collectively, the "Severance Agreement"), which entitles the Executive to receive certain payments and benefits from the Corporation if his employment is terminated by the Corporation for a reason other than for cause or if his job duties are substantially reduced and he resigns within 90 days thereafter. The Executive requested that the Corporation cancel the Severance Agreement. The parties, therefore, have mutually agreed to cancel the Severance Agreement effective as of the date hereof in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. As a result, as of the date hereof, the only severance payments the Executive will be entitled to receive are those to which he may be entitled under the Corporation's Salary Continuation Pay Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan provides salary continuation pay to any executive officer or other employee who is discharged under the circumstances stated in the Plan and who does not have another separation agreement with the Corporation. The amount of salary continuation pay under the Plan is based on years of service and job level and includes payment of base salary and continuation of benefits for specified monthly periods.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree that effective as of the date hereof the Severance Agreement is hereby canceled in all respects and shall be of no further force and effect, all such rights, obligations and liabilities under the Severance Agreement shall be extinguished, and neither party shall have any rights, obligations or liabilities to the other whatsoever under the Severance Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement, however, is intended to, and shall not, affect or change in any way the Executive's right to receive salary continuation pay as provided in the Plan. This Agreement is governed by and construed according to the laws of the State of Minnesota (without regard to the laws of conflict of any jurisdiction) as to all matters.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement on the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 99
 
SAN FRANCISCO, February 28, 2006  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) today said that Nicholas G. Moore, retired global chairman of PricewaterhouseCoopers, has been elected to the Company's Board of Directors.
"We're very fortunate that Nick brings to our Board almost four decades of client and management experience in audit and professional services, and we look forward to benefiting from his expertise and counsel," said Wells Fargo Chairman and CEO Dick Kovacevich. "His contributions will help us continue to make progress toward our vision of satisfying the financial needs of all our customers and helping them succeed financially."
Moore has served as chairman of Coopers & Lybrand International as well as chairman and CEO of Coopers & Lybrand LLP (the U.S. firm). After effecting the 1998 merger of Price Waterhouse and Coopers & Lybrand, he served as CEO of the U.S. firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers, and for three years as global Chairman.
He joined Coopers & Lybrand in 1968 and became partner in 1974. Moore received a Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from St. Mary's College (Moraga, Calif.) and a Juris Doctor degree from Hastings College of Law, the University of California. He is a member of the American Institute of CPAs, the California Bar Association, and served as a trustee of the Financial Accounting Foundation, the entity that oversees the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB).
Moore joins on the Wells Fargo & Company Board:
J.A. Blanchard III, Chairman, ADC Telecommunications, Eden Prairie, Minn.
Lloyd H. Dean, President, CEO, Catholic Healthcare West, San Francisco, Calif.
Susan E. Engel, Chairwoman, CEO, Lenox Group, Inc., Eden Prairie, Minn.
Enrique Hernandez, Jr., Chairman, CEO, Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc., Pasadena, Calif.
Robert L. Joss, Philip H. Knight Professor and Dean, Stanford U. Graduate School of Business, Palo Alto, Calif.
Reatha Clark King, Retired President, Board Chair, General Mills Foundation Minneapolis, Minn.
Richard M. Kovacevich, Chairman, CEO, Wells Fargo & Company, San Francisco, Calif.
Richard D. McCormick, Chairman Emeritus, US WEST, Inc., Denver, Colo.
Cynthia H. Milligan, Dean, College of Business Administration, University of Nebraska  Lincoln
Philip J. Quigley, Retired Chairman, President, CEO, Pacific Telesis Group, San Francisco, Calif.
Donald B. Rice, Chairman, President, CEO, Agensys, Inc., Santa Monica, Calif.
Judith M. Runstad, Of Counsel, Foster Pepper PLLC, Seattle, Wash.
Stephen W. Sanger, Chairman, CEO, General Mills, Inc., Minneapolis, Minn.
Susan G. Swenson, Former COO, T-Mobile USA, Inc., San Diego, Calif.
Michael W. Wright, Retired Chairman, CEO, SUPERVALU INC., Eden Prairie, Minn.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $482 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance to
more than 23 million customers from more than 6,200 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and elsewhere internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only U.S. bank to receive the highest possible credit rating, "Aaa," from Moody's Investors Service.


