FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20070702133428.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Effective June 26, 2007, the Company's Board of Directors elected John G. Stumpf as the Company's Chief Executive Officer to succeed Richard M. Kovacevich. Mr. Kovacevich will continue as Chairman, and Mr. Stumpf will retain his title as President of the Company. Mr. Stumpf, 53, has been with the Company for 25 years, most recently serving as President and Chief Operating Officer from August 2005 to June 2007, Group Executive Vice President, Community Banking, from July 2002 to August 2005 and as Group Executive Vice President, Western Banking, from May 2000 to June 2002.
In connection with his election, the Human Resources Committee of the Company's Board increased Mr. Stumpf's annual base salary from $700,000 to $800,000 and, pursuant to the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan") and the form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement filed as Exhibit 10 to this report and incorporated herein by this reference (the "NQSO Agreement"), granted Mr. Stumpf a stock option to purchase 400,000 shares of the Company's common stock. The exercise price of the stock option is $35.06 per share, the closing price of the Company's common stock on June 26, 2007.
During 2007 Mr. Stumpf and some of his immediate family members and affiliated entities had loans, other extensions of credit and/or banking or financial services transactions (such as deposit, trust, transfer agent, or similar services) in the ordinary course of business with the Company's banking and other lending subsidiaries. All of these transactions were on substantially the same terms, including interest rates, collateral and repayment and other terms, as those available at the time for similar transactions with unrelated parties, and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectibility or present other unfavorable features.
Effective June 26, 2007, the Company's Board also elected Carrie L. Tolstedt as a Senior Executive Vice President of the Company. Ms. Tolstedt has been a Group Executive Vice President of the Company since 2001, serving as the head of Regional Banking from 2002 to 2006 and as the head of Community Banking since 2006. In connection with her election, the Human Resources Committee, pursuant to the Plan and the form of NQSO Agreement, granted Ms. Tolstedt a stock option to purchase 56,040 shares of the Company's common stock. The exercise price of the stock option is $35.06 per share, the closing price of the Company's common stock on June 26, 2007.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10
 
1. Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") has granted to you an option ("Option") to purchase shares (the "Shares") of Wells Fargo & Company common stock ("Common Stock"). The Option is granted subject in all respects to the terms of the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Plan").
Grant of Option.
                
2. The term of this Option commences on 06/26/2007 and, except as provided in paragraph 3 below, ends on 06/26/2017, provided you are continuously employed by the Company or an Affiliate ("Wells Fargo"). If your employment with Wells Fargo is terminated, the Option may be exercised only as described in paragraph 3 below.
Term, Vesting and Exercise of Option.
Except as provided in paragraph 3 below, this Option becomes exercisable ("vests") according to the following table provided it has not been terminated before such date in accordance with the provisions of this Option:
 
To exercise all or part of the Option you must deliver a "Notice of Exercise," in such form as the Company authorizes, along with payment as described herein of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes. You must pay the exercise price on the day you exercise the Option (a) in cash, (b) in whole shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value, or (c) by delivering, with your Notice of Exercise, irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Company the amount of the exercise price and all applicable withholding taxes (a "cashless exercise"), unless you are an executive officer of the Company and such cashless exercise is prohibited by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If Stock is used to pay the exercise price ("swap transaction"), the Stock used (i) must have been owned by you for at least six months prior to the date of exercise or purchased by you in the open market; and (ii) must not have been used in a stock-for-stock swap transaction within the preceding six months. You shall not have any rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares of Common Stock subject to the Option until you have exercised the Option for such Shares.
3. If your termination of employment is due to Retirement, your Option will immediately vest and become exercisable until the expiration date or until one year after your date of death, whichever occurs first. If you become permanently disabled while you are employed by Wells Fargo, then your entire Option is immediately vested and exercisable and will remain exercisable until one year after your date of death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first. If you die while you are employed by Wells Fargo, the entire Option is immediately vested and exercisable, and your Beneficiary as determined in accordance with the Plan may exercise the Option until one year after the date of your death or until the Option expires, whichever occurs first.
Retirement, Disability, Death or Other Termination of Employment.
If you leave Wells Fargo's employment for any reason other than death, permanent disability, Retirement, or discharge for cause, you may exercise that part of the Option which was exercisable on the date of termination at any time within three (3) months after the date of termination or until the expiration date of the Option, whichever occurs first. If you are discharged for cause, the Option will expire upon receipt by you of oral or written notice of termination.
4. The issuance of Shares upon the exercise of the Option shall be subject to compliance by the Company and you with all applicable requirements of law relating thereto, including withholding tax obligations, and with all applicable regulations of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock may be listed at the time of such issuance. You agree to satisfy all withholding tax obligations applicable to the acquisition of Shares under the Option or the disposition of such Shares that the Company deems necessary. Income taxes are computed based on the difference between the Fair Market Value of the Shares acquired as of the date of exercise and the exercise price for those Shares. Taxes may be paid either in cash or, if you elect, by having the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued a number of Shares (valued at their Fair Market Value as of the date of exercise) necessary to satisfy the taxes. The Company is not obligated to exercise the Option and/or deliver the Shares until all payment obligations are met.
Compliance and Withholding Taxes.
5. Unless the Committee provides otherwise, (i) no rights under the Option will be assignable or transferable, and neither you nor your Beneficiary will have any power to anticipate, alienate, dispose of, pledge or encumber any rights under the Option, and (ii) the rights and the benefits of the Option may be exercised and received during your lifetime only by you or your legal representative.
Nontransferability of Option.
6. Nothing in this Agreement gives you any right to continued employment and Wells Fargo may terminate you at any time for any reason.
No Agreement for Wells Fargo to Continue Your Employment.
7. The Company may delay the exercise of the Option if it determines that (a) the Shares subject to the Option should be listed, registered or qualified on any securities exchange or under any law, or (b) the consent of a regulatory body is desirable.
General Restrictions.
8.This Agreement is subject to the provisions of the Plan. Capitalized terms not defined in this Agreement are used as defined in the Plan. If the Plan and this Agreement are inconsistent, provisions of the Plan will govern. Interpretations of the Plan and this Agreement by the Committee are binding on you and the Company.
Additional Provisions and Interpretation of this Agreement.


