FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20070417080042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
On April 17, 2007, Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. The text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report. The information included in the press release is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company will include complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended March 31, 2007, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99
 
 
* See Footnote 2 to Summary Financial Data, page 11.
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record diluted earnings per common share of $0.66 for first quarter 2007, up 10 percent from $0.60 in first quarter 2006. Net income was a record $2.24 billion, up 11 percent from $2.02 billion in first quarter 2006.
"Once again, our talented team delivered outstanding, industry-leading results with solid double-digit growth in revenue, net income and earnings per share," said Chairman and CEO Dick Kovacevich. "We achieved this broad-based, record breaking performance despite a downturn in some housing markets and a flat to inverted yield curve because our team members, guided by our vision and values, are relentlessly focused on satisfying all our customers' financial needs and helping them succeed financially. By collaborating together effectively as One Wells Fargo,' they're also, instinctively and naturally, putting what's best for the customer first and thus making it easier and adding greater value for our customers to do more business with us. As a result of our outstanding financial performance and conservative risk management, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is now the only U.S. bank, and one of only two worldwide, to have the highest credit rating from both Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services."
Diluted earnings per share were a record $0.66, up 10 percent from $0.60 earned in first quarter 2006 and up 13 percent (annualized) from $0.64 in fourth quarter 2006. "We are very pleased to report, once again, solid, double-digit growth and record results," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "In the last five years, Wells Fargo has grown earnings per share at a double-digit pace in 17 of the past 20 quarters. The results in first quarter 2007 were notable for the balance across our broadly diverse business segments, for continued improvement in operating margins, and for a modest decline in net credit losses from fourth quarter levels. In terms of business performance, growth was once again well balanced between consumer and commercial with most of our 80 plus businesses producing double-digit earnings or revenue growth in the quarter. In terms of operating margins, net interest margin improved to 4.95 percent, up 10 basis points from a year ago; return on assets, which includes credit costs, improved to 1.89 percent, up 17 basis points from a year ago; operating leverage was positive with revenue growth of 10 percent exceeding 9 percent expense growth; and return on equity remained strong at 19.7 percent, among the best in the industry. Earnings growth and operating margins were solid and improved in first quarter, despite an increase in nonperforming assets and credit charge-offs from a year ago, reflecting in large part our ongoing discipline in managing our businesses and balance sheet for industry-leading risk-adjusted returns."
Financial Performance
Revenue of $9.4 billion was another record, up $886 million, or 10 percent, from a year ago. "Community Banking and Wholesale Banking revenue growth was 12 percent and 15 percent, respectively, reflecting the strength and balance of our business model," said Atkins. Businesses with double-digit, or near double-digit, year-over-year revenue growth included commercial banking, asset-based lending, asset management, international/trade finance, capital markets, real estate brokerage, business direct, wealth management, card services, home equity lending, personal credit management, corporate trust and home mortgage. Year-over-year revenue growth was driven by growth in net interest income and particularly strong increases in fee income across products and services, reflecting continued growth in cross-sell. "Given the deterioration in the nonprime mortgage market during the first quarter, we took a number of actions that reduced revenue by approximately $90 million (pre tax), including reducing the carrying value of all nonprime loans in our mortgage warehouse and providing for additional estimated early payment default losses on securitized mortgages. In addition, given the decline in mortgage rates during the quarter, revenue was reduced
Revenue
 
by $34 million (pre tax) reflecting the decline in the value of mortgage servicing rights net of hedging," said Atkins.
Average loans increased $10.3 billion, or 3 percent, to $321.4 billion from a year ago. Excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages  the loan category affected by the sales of adjustable rate mortgages (ARMs) last year  total average loans grew by $30.2 billion, or 13 percent, from first quarter 2006. On a linked-quarter basis, average total loans grew $9.3 billion, or 12 percent (annualized). Since the ARM sales were completed prior to fourth quarter 2006, the 12 percent (annualized) linked-quarter loan growth was not impacted by any ARM sales.
Loans
Average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $12.3 billion, or 11 percent, from first quarter 2006 and increased $3.5 billion, or 12 percent (annualized), from fourth quarter 2006, marking the 10 consecutive quarter of double-digit, year-over-year commercial loan growth. Middle market lending, specialized financial services, commercial real estate, small business lending (Business Direct) and asset-based lending all had double-digit loan growth from first quarter 2006.
th
Average consumer loans decreased $2.8 billion from first quarter 2006 due to the previous sales of ARMs. Excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages, average consumer loans increased $17.1 billion, or 14 percent, from a year ago. Average real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgages, credit card, and other revolving credit and installment loans grew at double-digit rates from a year ago. On a linked-quarter basis, average consumer loans grew 12 percent (annualized).
Average core deposits increased $33.1 billion, or 13 percent, to $290.6 billion year over year and increased 10 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Core deposits now include certain funds that were previously swept into non-deposit products. Including only the growth in these funds from the date of conversion to deposits, average core deposits grew 10 percent year over year and 9 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis.
Deposits
Average mortgage escrow deposits were $20.6 billion, up $5.1 billion from first quarter 2006 and up $0.4 billion on a linked-quarter basis. Average retail core deposits grew $9.9 billion, or 5 percent, from first quarter 2006 and increased $3.7 billion, or 7 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Average net new consumer checking accounts grew 5.2 percent from first quarter 2006.
Net interest income increased 3 percent from first quarter 2006 driven by a one percent increase in average earnings assets and a 10 basis point increase in the net interest margin. The completion of the sales of ARMs and lower-yielding investment securities last year reduced the earning asset growth rate year over year, but also helped boost net interest margin. Net interest margin continued to benefit from growth in core deposits. On a linked-quarter basis, net interest income was down $40 million, or 3 percent (annualized), largely due to two fewer days in the quarter, and a decline in the mortgage loan warehouse. On a linked-quarter basis, net interest margin increased two basis points to 4.95 percent.
Net Interest Income
Noninterest income increased $746 million, or 20 percent, from first quarter 2006. "Growth in fee income was strong across the board, reflecting our ongoing success in cross-selling products and services to both consumer and commercial relationships," said Atkins. Deposit service fees rose 10 percent reflecting solid growth in deposit balances and accounts; trust and investment fees rose
Noninterest Income
 
10 percent reflecting increases in equity/bond markets from a year ago and success in building new wealth management relationships; debit and credit card fees rose 22 percent reflecting deeper penetration rates and increased activity; insurance fees rose 10 percent reflecting higher sales; and mortgage banking fee income increased due to an increase in originations and a 41 percent increase in gross servicing income, including the $140 billion servicing portfolio acquired last year. Capital markets activities were generally strong in the quarter, although at $97 million, equity gains were $88 million below 2006 average quarterly gains of $185 million. In line with its asset/liability management process, the Company sold $4 billion of its lowest-yielding bonds in the quarter at a gain of $29 million. At March 31, 2007, the net unrealized gain on securities available for sale was $948 million.
Noninterest expense was up $452 million, or 9 percent, from first quarter 2006. In the last 12 months, the Company opened 104 retail banking stores and added 7,600 team members (full-time equivalents). On a linked-quarter basis, noninterest expense increased $115 million, or 9 percent (annualized). Expenses in first quarter 2007 included $50 million of stock option expense, $29 million of seasonal FICA expenses and $16 million of acquisition-related integration costs.
Noninterest Expense
On January 1, 2007, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48, (FIN 48). Implementation of FIN 48 did not result in a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings. At January 1, 2007, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was $3.1 billion, of which $1.4 billion related to tax benefits that, if recognized, would not impact the annual effective tax rate. During the quarter, $119 million of net tax benefits were recorded, primarily reflecting the resolution of certain outstanding Federal income tax matters.
Income Taxes
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes
"First quarter 2007 credit results were in line with our expectations," said Chief Credit Officer Mike Loughlin. First quarter 2007 net credit losses were $715 million (0.90 percent of average loans, annualized), down from $726 million (0.92 percent) in fourth quarter 2006, and up from $433 million (0.56 percent) in first quarter 2006, which was positively impacted by historically low personal bankruptcies after the fourth quarter 2005 bankruptcy spike caused by the then impending change in the bankruptcy law.
Credit Quality
"We are pleased that auto related losses, while still at historically elevated levels, have stabilized, and our intensive management efforts, in both collections and underwriting, resulted in lower first quarter loss rates compared with third and fourth quarter 2006," said Loughlin. "Total 30 day or greater auto delinquency balances have declined about 25 percent from peak December 2006 levels due to seasonality and improved collections. Losses remained at predicted levels in our consumer unsecured and small business portfolios, and we continued to experience historically low losses in our commercial portfolios.
"We are experiencing higher losses in our home equity portfolio relative to the historically low and unsustainable levels experienced in 2006. We see particular stress in certain regional markets and in loans acquired from correspondents. We have tightened our underwriting standards and are focusing additional collections resources on targeted portfolio segments. We expect higher but manageable losses throughout 2007 in the home equity portfolio.
 
"With the well-publicized disruption in the nonprime residential real estate market, let me highlight a few important facts about Wells Fargo's nonprime mortgages. The vast majority of nonprime mortgages originated at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage are sold to the secondary market. Most nonprime loans held on our balance sheet were offered through Wells Fargo Financial. Most of these loans were debt consolidation refinances to help the customer improve their financial situation. We conduct a tangible benefits test for each loan, and we do not offer negative amortization products. Approximately half these loans are fixed rate and we underwrite all loans to the customer's ability to afford current and projected payments based on a fully indexed rate. All of these loans at Wells Fargo Financial were originated by team members; none were from third party brokers or correspondents.
"We conservatively underwrite Wells Fargo Financial real estate secured loans. Income is verified for all borrowers; there are no reduced documentation or stated income programs. Borrowers must have what we call minimum residual' income or cash flow after all debt service to qualify for these loans. While we are confident our portfolio will continue to perform better than the industry, we purchased private mortgage insurance on higher loan-to-value loans to mitigate our risk. Our total residential real estate portfolio is geographically diverse and we believe the portfolio has a minimal amount of adjustable mortgage rate reset risk in the next 12 months."
Total nonperforming assets were $2.67 billion (0.82 percent of loans) at March 31, 2007 compared with $2.42 billion (0.76 percent) at December 31, 2006 and $1.85 billion (0.60 percent) one year ago, including, respectively, $381 million, $322 million, and $227 million of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) repurchased loans, fully insured or guaranteed. "Commercial nonperforming assets continued to be at historically low levels, and our loan impairment analysis indicates only modest loss potential," said Loughlin. "We are constantly monitoring residential mortgage and auto nonperforming levels and have active programs to determine the best strategy to hold and workout or sell these assets."
The total of loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing was $4.81 billion, $5.07 billion and $3.41 billion at March 31, 2007, December 31, 2006, and March 31, 2006, respectively. For the same periods, the total included $3.68 billion, $3.91 billion and $2.68 billion, respectively, in advances pursuant to our servicing agreements to GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
 
Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. Net income for each of the three business segments was:
Business Segment Performance
"As One Wells Fargo,' our team continues to focus on working together to satisfy all of our customers' financial needs," said President and COO John Stumpf. "Yet again this quarter we saw the tremendous power of our diversified business model as our Company produced strong, broad-based results. Our customers are deepening their relationships with us, adding products and services, as illustrated by a new record in consumer cross-sell this quarter. At the same time, we continued to see significant improvement in customer loyalty and satisfaction measures."
More financial information about the business segments is on page 24.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
Selected Financial Information
Community Banking reported net income of $1.53 billion, up 27 percent from first quarter 2006 due primarily to growth in retail banking and home mortgage net income. Net interest income declined $32 million, or 1 percent, compared with first quarter 2006, due to a decline in earning assets that resulted from sales of ARMs at the end of first quarter 2006. The decline related to ARM sales was partially offset by an improvement in net interest margin of 21 basis points to 5.03 percent in first quarter 2007, despite pressures from the flat-to-inverted yield curve. Noninterest income increased $704 million, or 33 percent, compared with first quarter 2006. The growth was due primarily to higher fee income
 
related to mortgage and consumer loans, cards, brokerage and deposit service charges. Noninterest expense increased $253 million, or 7 percent, primarily due to growth in personnel expenses, while the provision for credit losses increased $117 million, or 62 percent, primarily due to higher losses in credit card and equity lending.
"Our highly-engaged, talented and hard-working team members continued to make progress on delivering a great experience for our customers," said Carrie Tolstedt, group EVP, Community Banking. "We had another strong quarter, with 4.96 million core product solutions provided to customers, up 13 percent from prior year on a comparable basis. Our retail bank household cross-sell rose to a record high of 5.3, and 65 percent of new checking account customers purchased . We've conducted more than 1.6 million store-based customer surveys since January 2004, and we continue to perform 50,000 surveys per month. For customers transacting at the teller line, welcoming and wait time survey scores were up 20 percent and customer loyalty scores improved 12 percent from same period last year. During first quarter, we also opened 18 banking stores, added 57 new machines and converted 151 ATMs in Central California to machines to better serve our customers."
Wells Fargo Packages
webATM
Envelope-Free
SM
webATM
"Our culture of conservative underwriting of nonprime credit and a very strong commitment to fair and responsible lending to customers across the credit spectrum has served us well in these turbulent times in the mortgage industry," said Mark Oman, senior EVP, Home and Consumer Finance Group. "Wells Fargo's responsible lending principles, with a focus on the consumer's ability to repay, and setting loan terms and features that are appropriate to the consumer's circumstances have resulted in significantly better credit performance than the majority of the competitors in the industry. However, given the current uncertainties in the housing and capital markets, Home Mortgage has further tightened its underwriting guidelines. Loans underwritten prior to these guideline changes were either sold or marked to market during the quarter and have been fully reflected in first quarter results.
 
Nonprime applications of $7.4 billion were down 15 percent on a linked-quarter basis, reflecting the underwriting changes made during the quarter.
"With prime mortgage rates in the 6.00-6.25 percent range, the issues confronting the nonprime segment did not dampen demand for prime mortgages. In fact, total first quarter 2007 application volume of $113 billion was up 26 percent on a linked-quarter basis. Prime applications of $105.1 billion were up 29 percent on a linked-quarter basis."
,
Wholesale Banking
serves customers coast to coast
including middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, capital markets activities and institutional investments.
Selected Financial Information
"The Wholesale Banking team achieved strong results across a broad spectrum of business lines," said Dave Hoyt, senior EVP, Wholesale Banking Group. "We continue to deliver a wide range of products and services to our customers through robust sales and distribution teams.
"After integrating recent acquisitions with our existing funds business, half of our mutual funds were in top two quintiles for performance over the three year period ending February 28, 2007. We're making strong gains in the asset management business, with 11 percent growth in assets under management year over year and now have the third-largest bank-owned portfolio of mutual funds.
Lipper's
"Our customers continue to transition from paper to electronic financial services; their electronic collections surpassed paper collections for the first time in February. Active users of our portal were up nearly 30 percent from the same period last year. Checks processed electronically through our internet-based industry-leading remote service during the quarter totaled $38 billion. With Wells Fargo, business customers of every size and type can successfully and affordably share in the benefits of the paper-to-electronic evolution."
Commercial Electronic Office
Desktop Deposit
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $598 million in first quarter 2007, up 13 percent from a year ago. Revenue increased 15 percent, driven by strong loan and deposit growth and higher fee income. Average loans reached $78 billion, up 15 percent from first quarter 2006, with double digit increases across nearly all wholesale lending businesses. Average deposits grew $25 billion, all in interest-bearing balances, reflecting a mix of organic growth and the conversions in 2006 of customer sweep accounts from off-balance sheet money market funds into Wells Fargo deposits. Noninterest
 
income increased $169 million due to higher trust and investment income, insurance revenue, commercial real estate brokerage fees and capital markets activity. Noninterest expense increased $145 million mainly from higher personnel-related costs including team member additions and higher incentive payments, along with higher expenses from our acquisitions, expenses related to higher sales volumes and investments in new offices, businesses and systems. On a linked-quarter basis, Wholesale Banking net income rose $90 million, or 18 percent, driven by capital markets activity and seasonality in our insurance businesses.
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer loans primarily through real estate-secured debt consolidation products, automobile financing, consumer and private-label credit cards and commercial services to consumers and businesses throughout the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the Pacific Rim.
Selected Financial Information
"Net income decreased over the first quarter of 2006 because of the $127 million gain we realized on the sale of our consumer lending business in Puerto Rico a year ago, plus the higher provision we took for credit losses this year," said Tom Shippee, Wells Fargo Financial president and CEO. "The higher credit losses year over year were due, in part, to lower than normal bankruptcy charge-offs and higher recoveries early in 2006. Additionally, the auto lending losses were up from a year ago, but declined on a linked-quarter basis.
"Our real estate lending business remained on solid ground. Wells Fargo Financial's real estate-secured lending portfolio performed well in a quarter when many other companies' nonprime lending businesses suffered. We attribute our strong credit quality to our disciplined business model and underwriting at Wells Fargo Financial, where we do not offer riskier residential real estate products such as teaser rates, stated-income loans and no documentation loans. Real estate delinquencies continued to be within our expectations, well-below industry trends and showed improvement over the fourth quarter.
"In terms of auto lending  our other large business  we continued to make steady progress as a result of changes we implemented in the second half of 2006 to reduce delinquencies and charge-offs. Improved processes, reduced originations  intended to improve collections capacity  and increased staffing levels in collections have all had a positive impact. These changes in the auto business resulted in decreased losses of $27 million in the first quarter and an improvement of approximately 25 percent in the auto portfolio's 30-plus day delinquency rates."
Wells Fargo Financial reported net income of $114 million, down 59 percent from a year ago. Revenue of $1.32 billion was driven by an increase in net interest income from continued growth in
 
the real estate and auto loan portfolios. Revenue decreased $56 million from first quarter 2006, despite growth in net interest income, because of the gain in first quarter 2006 from the sale of the Puerto Rican business. Average loans grew 18 percent to $62.7 billion. Noninterest expense was $749 million, up 8 percent from first quarter 2006, driven by normal annual increases in personnel costs, as well as the staffing level increases in collections and other investments in business processes.
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results and characteristics of several of the loan portfolios will be available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through April 20, 2007. Dial 877-660-6853 (domestic) or 201-612-7415 (international). Enter the account number 286 and conference ID 236054#. The call is also available on the internet at and .
Recorded Message
www.wellsfargo.com/ir
http://www.vcall.com/IC/CEPage.asp?ID=115230
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company, including statements about credit quality and credit loss potential generally and specifically the statements that we expect higher but manageable losses in our home equity loan portfolio throughout 2007, that we believe our residential real estate loan portfolio has a minimal amount of adjustable mortgage rate reset risk in the next 12 months, and that we are confident that our Wells Fargo Financial real estate secured loan portfolio will continue to perform better than the industry generally. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations, including a deterioration of the credit quality of our home equity and real estate secured loan portfolios due to higher interest rates, increased unemployment, a decline in home values or other economic factors. For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, including information incorporated into the Form 10-K from our 2006 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed as Exhibit 13 to the Form 10-K.
Any factor described in this news release or in any document referred to in this news release could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $486 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through more than 6,000 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the U.S., and one of only two banks worldwide, to have the highest credit rating from both Moody's Investors Service, "Aaa," and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, "AAA."
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA


