FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20070717080207.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 17, 2007, Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. The text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report. The information included in the press release is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company will include complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99
Second Quarter 2007 Highlights:
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record diluted earnings per common share of $0.67 for second quarter 2007, up 10 percent from $0.61 in second quarter 2006. Net income was a record $2.28 billion, up 9 percent from $2.09 billion in second quarter 2006.
"Our talented team, pulling together for our customers as One Wells Fargo,' achieved another terrific quarter of superior financial performance with double-digit growth in both revenue and earnings per share  all the more remarkable because of the industry headwinds of a weaker housing market, a flat yield curve and slower deposit growth," said President and CEO John Stumpf. "We continue to earn more business from current customers and invest in future growth through internal investments and acquisitions. Our time-tested vision and business model have delivered double-digit annual compound growth in revenue, earnings per share and total stockholder return for the past five, ten, 15 and 20 years. The vast majority of this growth has come from earning more business from our current customers, but we've also been a disciplined, effective acquirer, which brings us more new customers and the opportunity to satisfy all their financial needs. This quarter, we acquired Placer Sierra Bancshares in California and the U.S. construction lending business of CIT Group, Inc. We're on track to complete our acquisition by year end of Greater Bay Bancorp, with $7.4 billion in assets, the third largest bank acquisition in our Company's history and a significant addition to community banking, commercial insurance brokerage, specialty finance and trust. We're also on track to open approximately 100 banking stores for the fourth consecutive year and remodel another 200 to make it more convenient for our customers to give us more of their business."
Financial Performance
Diluted earnings per share were a record $0.67, up 10 percent from $0.61 earned in second quarter 2006. "Our double-digit earnings per share growth again was driven by an ideal combination of double-digit top line growth (revenue up 13 percent year over year), positive operating leverage (expenses up 11 percent versus 13 percent revenue growth), and relatively stable credit quality (net credit losses of 0.87 percent of average total loans versus the 0.91 percent average of the prior two quarters)," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "Business performance was strong and well balanced across the broad diversity of our business segments, with most of our eighty plus consumer and commercial businesses producing double-digit earnings or revenue growth in the quarter. We increased or maintained operating margins, with the net interest margin at 4.89 percent, up 13 basis points from a year ago; return on assets, which includes all credit costs, at 1.82 percent, up 11 basis points from a year ago; and return on equity remaining at a strong 19.6 percent, among the best in the industry."
Revenue
Revenue of $9.89 billion was another record, up $1.1 billion, or 13 percent, from a year ago and up $450 million, or 19 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. "Despite a challenging environment and selected tightening of credit standards, double-digit revenue growth again was driven by double-digit growth in consumer and business lending and deposits, as well as very strong growth in virtually all of our diverse, fee-based products and services," said Atkins. Businesses that generated double-digit, year-over-year revenue growth included asset management, business direct, capital markets, corporate trust, credit and debit cards, global remittance services, home equity, insurance, international, personal credit management, real estate brokerage, wealth management and Wells Fargo Financial.
 
Loans
Average loans increased $31.6 billion, or 11 percent, to $332.0 billion from a year ago. On a linked-quarter basis, average total loans grew $10.5 billion, or 13 percent (annualized).
This was the 11 consecutive quarter of double-digit, year-over-year growth for average commercial and commercial real estate loans, up $13.3 billion, or 12 percent, from a year ago. Small business lending (business direct), specialized financial services, asset-based lending, and commercial real estate all had double-digit loan growth from second quarter 2006. On a linked-quarter basis, average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $4.6 billion, or 15 percent (annualized). Average consumer loans increased $17.3 billion, or 10 percent, from second quarter 2006 and increased $5.5 billion, or 11 percent (annualized), from first quarter 2007.
th
Deposits
Average core deposits were $300.5 billion, up $36.4 billion, or 14 percent, year over year and up 14 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Core deposits include certain funds that previously were swept into non-deposit products. Including only the growth in these funds post conversion to deposits, average core deposits grew 11 percent year over year. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $23.4 billion, up $5.8 billion from second quarter 2006 and up $2.8 billion on a linked-quarter basis. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 12 percent from second quarter 2006 and 11 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Average retail core deposits grew $13.1 billion, or 6 percent, from second quarter 2006 and increased $4.3 billion, or 8 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Net new consumer checking accounts grew 4.9 percent from second quarter 2006.
Net Interest Income
Compared with the second quarter of 2006, net interest income increased 4 percent, the net interest margin grew 13 basis points and average earning assets grew 2 percent. On a linked-quarter basis, growth in net interest income accelerated to 15 percent (annualized), driven by an 18 percent (annualized) increase in earning assets, including the addition later in the quarter of approximately $30 billion of securities in the investment portfolio at substantially higher yields. The net interest margin declined 6 basis points in the quarter, largely due to the accelerated asset growth, which also will increase net interest income, but likely reduce the net interest margin in future quarters. At 4.89 percent in second quarter, our net interest margin remained the highest among our peers.
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income increased $890 million, or 23 percent, from second quarter 2006 and 24 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. "The strong double-digit growth in fee income again demonstrated the advantage of our diversified business model and our success in satisfying all the financial needs of our consumer and commercial customers," said Atkins. This double-digit growth reflected strong year-over-year growth in deposit service fees (up 11 percent); trust and investment fees (up 24 percent); debit and credit card fees (up 24 percent); other fees, primarily loan related, (up 25 percent); and insurance fees (up 19 percent).
Mortgage banking noninterest income declined $46 million year over year and declined $101 million from first quarter 2007. The linked-quarter decline reflected solid origination growth (originations up $12 billion, or 71 percent (annualized) in the quarter) and a higher net gain on mortgage loan origination/sales activities, offset by a net loss of $225 million reflecting the impact of higher interest rates on the valuation of mortgage servicing rights net of hedging costs. Capital markets generally were strong in the quarter, including $242 million in income from the
 
Company's equity businesses, approximately $75 million above the average equity gains for the prior five quarters. Bond losses of $42 million were recorded in the quarter as the lowest-yielding bonds were sold and repositioned with higher-yielding securities late in the quarter. At June 30, 2007, the net unrealized gain on securities available for sale was $91 million.
Noninterest Expense
Noninterest expense increased $551 million, or 11 percent, from second quarter 2006 compared with 13 percent revenue growth for the same period. Substantially all of the expense increase was related to higher personnel costs, reflecting a 3 percent increase in team members (full-time equivalents, largely sales and service professionals), normal merit increases, and higher sales commissions in the insurance, wealth management, and real estate brokerage businesses, all of which had very strong revenue growth year-over-year. Merger and integration expenses in the quarter were $8 million. "Most of our non-personnel expenses were essentially flat from last year, reflecting our ongoing discipline in containing expenses that do not directly add to revenue growth," said Atkins. Reflecting the continued positive operating leverage, the efficiency ratio improved to 57.9 percent from 58.9 percent a year ago and 58.5 percent in first quarter 2007.
Credit Quality
"Second quarter credit quality was in line with our expectations," said Chief Credit Officer Mike Loughlin. "While net credit losses were up from a year ago, losses have been relatively flat for the past few quarters and some of the leading credit metrics, such as loans 90 days or more past due and nonaccrual loans, have been improving." Second quarter net credit losses were $720 million (0.87 percent of average loans, annualized), flat compared with $715 million (0.90 percent) in first quarter 2007 and up from $432 million (0.58 percent) in second quarter 2006, when consumer losses were historically low following the fourth quarter 2005 spike in bankruptcy-related losses.
"Both net credit losses and the loss rate in our auto loan portfolio continued to decline as our substantial investment in additional collection resources is fully integrated into our credit cycle management," said Loughlin. "The business continues to adjust loan underwriting criteria and review dealer management strategies to maximize sales efficiency and credit quality. We recognize that industry credit performance typically deteriorates in the second half of the year and we are carefully monitoring our delinquency and loss performance and continue to adjust our auto loan origination and collection processes as necessary.
"As expected, home equity losses remained at higher levels during the second quarter as real estate values remained weak in multiple national markets. We expect this trend to continue during the second half of 2007.
"Credit performance remained strong in our first mortgage portfolios at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage and Wells Fargo Financial. Delinquency rates in both our prime and nonprime portfolios remained significantly better than published industry rates. We believe our prudent product strategy, along with disciplined underwriting and collections practices, and our willingness to work proactively with our customers, has allowed us to maintain stable and predictable credit performance. Overall commercial loan performance remained very strong, including commercial real estate, supported by high occupancy rates and low interest rates." Total nonperforming assets were $2.72 billion (0.79 percent of loans) at June 30, 2007, compared with $2.67 billion (0.82 percent) at March 31, 2007, and $1.92 billion (0.64 percent) one year ago. "We had relatively minor growth in nonperforming assets during the quarter due to modest
 
commercial increases (expected due to portfolio growth and seasoning) and virtually no consumer increases as we focused on problem loan resolution and asset sales," said Loughlin. "We believe our nonperforming loan portfolio has relatively low loss potential due to the high percentage of consumer real estate and auto-secured loans where we take an initial write-down, if applicable, as the loan is transferred to nonperforming status."
The total of loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing was $4.99 billion, $4.81 billion and $3.34 billion at June 30, 2007, March 31, 2007 and June 30, 2006, respectively. For the same periods, the total included $3.91 billion, $3.68 billion, and $2.53 billion, respectively, in advances pursuant to our servicing agreements to GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veteran Affairs.
 
Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing (Excluding Insured/Guaranteed GNMA Balances)
The allowance for loan and lease losses, including unfunded commitments, was $4.01 billion at June 30, 2007, up $42 million from March 31, 2007. "We believe the allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at June 30, 2007," said Loughlin.
Business Segment Performance
Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial.
More financial information about the business segments is on page 26.
 
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
Community Banking reported net income of $1.55 billion, up $196 million, or 14 percent, from second quarter 2006. The increase was due to fee revenue growth in retail banking and investment income. Average loans increased $12.7 billion, or 7 percent, from second quarter 2006. Average core deposits grew $18.9 billion, or 8 percent, from second quarter 2006. Noninterest income increased $633 million, or 26 percent, compared with second quarter 2006, largely due to higher revenue related to brokerage, deposit service charges, consumer loans, cards and investments. Noninterest expense increased $182 million, or 5 percent, predominantly due to growth in personnel expenses, while the provision for credit losses increased $166 million, or 89 percent, due to higher losses in consumer and small business lending.
Regional Banking Highlights
"The Regional Banking team continues to focus on delivering a great experience for our customers and helping them succeed financially," said Carrie Tolstedt, senior EVP, Community Banking. "We had solid results in second quarter, with emphasis on small business customers during our Small Business Appreciation Campaign. In the second quarter, sales of store-based business solutions increased 17 percent from prior year on a comparable basis, and sales of rose 41 percent. In March, we introduced , an industry first, allowing small business owners to accept credit and debit card payments at a flat, low discount rate and have access to funds as soon as the next business day. Our commitment to the customer experience continued, with 50,000 store-based customer
Wells Fargo Business Services Packages
Wells Fargo Merchant Checking
 
surveys performed per month. For customers transacting at the teller line, welcoming and wait time survey scores were up 22 percent and customer loyalty scores improved 11 percent from same period last year. During second quarter, we opened 21 banking stores, added 41 machines, and converted 330 ATMs, primarily in Northern California, to machines to better serve our customers. We also welcomed our new team members from Placer Sierra Bancshares."
webATM
Envelope-Free
SM
webATM
Home Mortgage and Home Equity Highlights
"Home Mortgage applications of $114 billion for the quarter were up 6 percent over last year, reflecting increased refinancing," said Mark Oman, senior EVP, Home and Consumer Finance Group. "Residential real estate originations of $80 billion were essentially flat from last year, but up substantially from first quarter 2007. First mortgage originations were up 1 percent from last year as a $2.4 billion increase in prime originations was partially offset by a $1.4 billion decline in nonprime originations. The decline in nonprime originations reflected the changes in underwriting guidelines that were made during the first quarter.
"As a result of our responsible lending and risk management practices, we do not face many of the issues others do in the mortgage industry. First, we do not retain any credit interest in any prime and nonprime securitizations. Second, we do not originate any negative amortizing mortgages, including option adjustable-rate mortgages. Finally, we do not portfolio any nonprime no-documentation mortgages or nonprime low-documentation mortgages.
"The National Home Equity Group portfolio was $81 billion at June 30, 2007, up 7 percent from a year ago. The slowing growth in the home equity portfolio reflected an increasing number of markets with declining home prices, which reduced customers' borrowing against their home equity."
Wealth Management Group Highlights
Internet Highlights
 
,
Wholesale Banking
serves customers coast to coast
including middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, capital markets activities and institutional investments.
"Wholesale Banking had another solid quarter with strong activity in several areas," said Dave Hoyt, senior EVP, Wholesale Banking Group. "We're making it easier for our customers to do business as they move from paper to electronic. Active portal users were up 29 percent from 2006, and customers now initiate and receive more payments electronically than through checks. Through the first half of 2007, we've already received over 20 percent more checks through our Check21 solutions, like our award-winning service, than we did all of last year. In May, we introduced service, the first major U.S. financial services company to offer mobile service for medium and large businesses.
Commercial Electronic Office
Desktop Deposit
CEO Mobile
SM
"To continue providing outstanding service to our customers, we built on core competencies with acquisitions in key areas: the addition of CIT Construction gives us more capability to provide commercial financing to the infrastructure construction industry; acquiring Greater Bay Bancorp will add the expertise of the nation's 15 largest insurance broker; Wells Fargo Foothill opened a Canadian affiliate; and Wells Fargo Insurance Services acquired a commercial insurance agency in Michigan and the employee benefits operations from Virchow, Krause & Co. in Minneapolis."
th
Wholesale Banking's net income increased 13 percent to $570 million from a year ago. Revenue increased 20 percent to $2.2 billion from second quarter 2006, driven by strong loan and deposit growth and higher fee income. Average loans reached $81.4 billion, up 16 percent from a year ago, with double-digit increases across nearly all wholesale lending businesses. Average core deposits rose $17.6 billion from a year ago, all in interest-bearing balances, reflecting both organic growth from new and existing customers and conversions, completed in 2006, of customer sweep accounts from off-balance sheet money market funds into Wells Fargo deposits. Noninterest income increased $251 million from a year ago due to higher commercial real estate brokerage fees, along with year-over-year increases in capital markets activity (moderated from first quarter 2007), trust and investment income (reflecting a 17 percent increase in assets under management) and insurance revenue. Noninterest expense increased $251 million from a year ago, mainly due to higher personnel-related costs, including additional team members and higher incentive expenses,
 
and expenses related to higher sales volumes, investments in new offices and businesses, and acquisitions completed in the second half of 2006.
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer loans primarily through real-estate debt consolidation products, automobile financing, consumer and private-label credit cards and commercial services to consumers and businesses throughout the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the Pacific Rim.
"We are pleased with the growth in our business as we move through a period of adjustment in our markets and as we continue to invest for the future," said Tom Shippee, Wells Fargo Financial president and CEO. "Revenue growth continued at a double-digit pace, although the 10 percent revenue growth in second quarter was somewhat more moderate than we've experienced in prior periods, as we began shifting several quarters ago toward the lower risk end of the spectrum of credit products we offer within the auto segment. Expenses increased 18 percent, somewhat higher than our 14 percent loan growth rate, largely due to the additional collection capacity we added late last year in auto, along with a higher collection and repossession costs and mortgage insurance premiums. We began to insure a significant portion of our higher loan-to-value real estate loans in fourth quarter 2006. Credit quality was in line with expectations in the quarter.
"Wells Fargo Financial's real estate-secured lending business continued to perform as modeled with solid loan growth. Credit quality in our portfolio has not experienced the negative effects that many nonprime lenders have because of our solid underwriting practices, including ensuring there is a tangible benefit to the borrower before we make a loan. Our real estate delinquencies were down 9 percent from fourth quarter 2006. The recent regulatory guidance issued for subprime lending will not have a significant impact on Wells Fargo Financial's operations, since many of those guidelines are part of our normal business practices.
"Our auto-lending receivables were relatively flat on a linked-quarter basis, but we continued to improve the processes and collections capacity for that portfolio, which resulted in reduced losses for the third consecutive quarter. Auto losses were down $42 million in the second quarter, following a $27 million decline in the first quarter. The portfolio's 30-day and over delinquency rates were almost unchanged from the first quarter, which improved 24 percent from the end of 2006.
"During the first half of 2007, we closed approximately 5 percent of our consumer stores to reduce excess infrastructure cost and redundancies in select markets, while maintaining and redeploying sales staff to other locations to improve the overall efficiency and sales capacity of the store network."
 
Wells Fargo Financial reported net income of $156 million, down 31 percent from a year ago. Revenue of $1.4 billion was driven by an increase in net interest income from continued growth in the real estate and auto loan portfolios. Average loans grew 14 percent to $64.0 billion. Noninterest expense was $791 million, up 18 percent from second quarter 2006, as discussed above.
Recorded Message
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results and characteristics of several of the loan portfolios will be available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through July 20, 2007. Dial 877-660-6853 (domestic) or 201-612-7415 (international). Enter account number 286# and conference ID 246239#. The call is also available on the internet at and
www.wellsfargo.com/ir
http://www.vcall.com/IC/CEPage.asp?ID=118147
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company, including the expectation that accelerated asset growth in second quarter 2007 will increase net interest income and reduce net interest margin in future quarters, the expectation that home equity losses will continue at higher levels during the second half of 2007, the belief regarding the loss potential of our nonperforming loan portfolio, the belief regarding the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses at June 30, 2007, and the expectation that recent regulatory guidance issued for subprime lending will not have a significant impact on Wells Fargo Financial's operations. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations, including a deterioration in the credit quality of our home equity, real estate, auto or other loan portfolios or a deterioration in the value of the collateral securing those loans, due to higher interest rates, increased unemployment, a decline in home or auto values, or other economic factors. For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as updated by our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Any factor described in this news release or in any document referred to in this news release could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $540 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through almost 6,000 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the U.S., and one of only two banks worldwide, to have the highest credit rating from both Moody's Investors Service, "Aaa," and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, "AAA."
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA


