FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20071016075945.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 16, 2007, Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. The text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report. The information included in the press release is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company will include complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99
Third Quarter 2007 Highlights:
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported record diluted earnings per common share of $0.68 for third quarter 2007, up 6 percent from $0.64 in third quarter 2006. Net income was $2.28 billion, up 4 percent from $2.19 billion in third quarter 2006. For the first nine months of 2007, diluted earnings per share were a record $2.01 and net income was a record $6.81 billion, up 9 percent and 8 percent, respectively, from the first nine months of 2006.
"Given the severe disruption in the credit markets, it was a challenging quarter to be sure. Despite that, we had strong growth in revenue and earnings per share, as our team members remained focused on executing our time-tested, diversified business model," said President and CEO John Stumpf. "Our team continued to earn more of our customers' business, setting a new record in customer cross-sell of 5.5 products per consumer household. We maintained our conservative risk management practices, and our strong balance sheet and capital ratios, perhaps the strongest in the industry, which allowed us to continue to grow profitably despite the problems in the market. A challenging environment presents exceptional growth opportunities, perhaps the best in recent years and we are well positioned to take advantage of them. We welcome the new team members and customers from Greater Bay Bancorp who joined our Wells Fargo family this month, adding $7.4 billion in assets and 41 banking stores across the San Francisco Bay Area, including the teams from Greater Bay's ABD Insurance and Financial Services and Matsco Financial Corporation."
Financial Performance
Diluted earnings per share rose 6 percent to a record $0.68. "While we're not immune to the evolving slowdown in the housing sector, we had another solid quarter, in total and across most of our businesses, despite the turbulent credit markets," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "Once again, these solid results were driven by double-digit revenue growth (10 percent), positive operating leverage (revenue growth 2 percentage points above expense growth), double-digit growth in both loans and core deposits, and operating margins that remained at the top of the large bank peer group."
Revenue
Revenue of $9.85 billion was up $919 million, or 10 percent, from a year ago. Year-to-date revenue growth was 11 percent. "Achieving double-digit revenue growth during the challenging environment in the third quarter once again reflected the value of our diversified business model and our success in earning more of our customers' business," said Atkins. Businesses that generated double-digit, year-over-year revenue growth included asset management, real estate brokerage, insurance, international, small business lending, wealth management, credit card, global remittance services, corporate trust and home mortgage.
Revenue was flat on a linked-quarter basis, with most businesses up solidly, offset by a seasonal drop in insurance premiums and a decline in real estate brokerage fees from the record set in second quarter 2007. The declines in insurance and real estate brokerage fees were partially offset by associated declines in expenses in these businesses.
Loans
Average loans of $350.7 billion increased $46.7 billion, or 15 percent, from a year ago. On a linked-quarter basis, average loans grew $18.7 billion, including the impact of the acquisitions of Placer Sierra Bancshares ($1.2 billion) and CIT Construction ($2.6 billion).
 
This was the 12 consecutive quarter of double-digit, year-over-year growth for average commercial and commercial real estate loans, up $18.8 billion, or 16 percent. Commercial loan growth was broadly diversified by product and geography, with small business lending, specialized financial services, asset-based lending, international, and commercial real estate generating double-digit loan growth from third quarter 2006. On a linked-quarter basis, average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $7.7 billion, or 24 percent (annualized), including $3.5 billion from acquisitions. Average consumer loans increased $26.9 billion, or 15 percent, from third quarter 2006 and increased $10.7 billion, or 22 percent (annualized), from second quarter 2007, including $350 million from acquisitions.
th
Deposits
Average core deposits were $306.1 billion, up $36.4 billion, or 13 percent, year over year and up 7 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis, including $1.7 billion from the acquisition of Placer Sierra Banchsares. Core deposits include certain Eurodollar sweep accounts that previously were swept into non-deposit products. Including only the growth in these funds post conversion to deposits, average core deposits grew 11 percent year over year. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $22.4 billion, up $3 billion from third quarter 2006 and down $1 billion from second quarter 2007. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 13 percent from third quarter 2006 and 9 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Average retail core deposits grew $14.3 billion, or 7 percent, from third quarter 2006 and increased $627 million, or 1 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Net new consumer checking accounts grew 4.8 percent from third quarter 2006.
Net Interest Income
Net interest income increased 5 percent from third quarter 2006 and 6 percent (annualized) from second quarter 2007. "During the quarter, we sold $27 billion of our lowest-yielding mortgage-backed securities that were largely hedging the mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) asset against a decline in interest rates," said Atkins. "The securities were replaced with off-balance sheet economic hedges to more efficiently manage the market risk in the MSRs portfolio. Since most of these securities were sold on a forward basis, they remained on the balance sheet for most of the quarter, while only modestly adding to net interest income, the principal reason the net interest margin declined during the quarter. In total, gains on the sale of all mortgage-backed securities in the quarter were $160 million, largely offset by the associated loss on the forward sales contracts executed to lock in the sale of the securities. The sale of the mortgage-backed securities also provided additional capacity to acquire more attractively-yielding assets. About $17 billion of new loans and securities were purchased later in the third quarter at yields well above the yields on the mortgage-backed securities that were sold, which will benefit net interest margin in fourth quarter 2007." Net interest income was reduced by approximately $15 million in the quarter due to temporarily elevated short-term London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)-based funding costs at the peak of the dislocation in the capital markets in August.
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income increased $686 million, or 18 percent, from third quarter 2006. The double-digit, year-over-year growth in fee income reflected very strong growth in deposit service fees (up 18 percent); trust and investment fees (up 17 percent driven by new business growth and market appreciation); card fees (up 21 percent driven by business activity and continued increases in debit/credit card penetration rates); and other fees (up 11 percent driven by real estate brokerage fees). Mortgage banking noninterest income increased $339 million year over year and $134 million
 
on a linked-quarter basis with the growth and value of the mortgage servicing business more than offsetting a decline of 12 percent in mortgage originations from a year ago. On a linked-quarter basis, there was a seasonal drop in insurance premiums and a decline in real estate brokerage fees from the record set in second quarter 2007.
During the quarter, noninterest income was affected by widening credit spreads, increases in market volatility, changes in interest rates and other credit/housing market conditions, including:
At September 30, 2007, the net unrealized gain on the debt and equity securities available for sale portfolio was $581 million, up from $91 million at June 30, 2007. "Given our long-standing practice of opportunistically selling lower-yielding available for sale securities and buying only when long-term rates are perceived to be high, we continued to hold what we believe is one of the best yielding debt securities portfolios in the industry," said Atkins.
Noninterest Expense
Noninterest expense increased $420 million, or 8 percent, from third quarter 2006, 2 percentage points below revenue growth, resulting in positive operating leverage. The efficiency ratio improved to 55.8 percent from 56.9 percent a year ago and 57.9 percent in second quarter 2007. Third quarter expenses included $26 million for merger and integration costs, and severance and other costs in the residential real estate businesses. "While we actively manage our expenses for positive operating leverage and have reduced expenses at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, we continued to invest for future growth," said Atkins. "We added 20 banking stores and converted 39 Placer Sierra Bancshares stores in the third quarter, as well as added 342 platform bankers." Noninterest expense declined $226 million, or 16 percent (annualized), from second quarter 2007, primarily due to lower expenses in the insurance and real estate brokerage businesses.
Credit Quality
Net credit losses were $892 million (1.01 percent of average loans, annualized) up from $720 million (0.87 percent) in second quarter 2007 and from $663 million (0.86 percent) in third
 
quarter 2006. "Almost half of the increase in net credit losses from second quarter 2007 was concentrated in the home equity portfolio, where losses accelerated in the quarter given the steeper than anticipated decline in national home prices," said Chief Credit Officer Mike Loughlin. "The remainder of the increased credit losses was concentrated in the auto portfolio (seasonally higher in the second half of the year) and in unsecured consumer credit (largely due to portfolio growth, with loss rates remaining relatively stable). Commercial loan losses remained modest and within portfolio expectations."
"Our first mortgage portfolio continued to perform well, with annualized losses of 0.11 percent  only $16 million on the entire portfolio of $63.9 billion (average) for third quarter 2007  down from 0.13 percent in second quarter 2007," said Loughlin. "The $24 billion debt consolidation portfolio at Wells Fargo Financial continued to grow and perform as expected, and better than industry levels. First mortgage delinquency rates also remained considerably below industry levels."
Net credit losses and loss rates in the home equity portfolio increased over the prior quarter and prior year. Third quarter 2007 net credit losses in real estate 1-4 family junior liens were $153 million (0.83 percent of average loans, annualized), a $62 million increase from $91 million (0.51 percent) for second quarter 2007. Third quarter 2006 losses were $27 million (0.17 percent). "The majority of the home equity portfolio segments, those sourced through our retail stores or through cross-sell from Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, performed satisfactorily during the quarter," said Loughlin. "Losses have increased on a linked-quarter basis as the softness in the residential real estate market continued to impact consumers. We have tracked national real estate and economic trends for a number of years and due to the continued soft market conditions we reduced maximum allowable combined loan-to-value advance rates for all sales channels during the third quarter. In addition, a segment of the portfolio, correspondent home equity loans purchased from third party originators, has demonstrated an unacceptable level of credit losses. The loans generated by our correspondent channel represented about 7 percent of the home equity portfolio at quarter end, but generated about 25 percent of the losses in the quarter. As this adverse trend emerged, we tightened credit standards earlier in 2007 and completely eliminated this channel during the third quarter. Given current real estate market conditions, credit losses in the home equity portfolio are likely to increase in fourth quarter 2007 and remain at elevated levels into 2008."
Losses in non-real estate consumer loans (credit card and other revolving credit and installment) were higher primarily due to typical second half seasonal increases in the indirect auto portfolio,
 
with net auto losses up $57 million from the prior quarter. Year over year, net auto losses were down $32 million. "Third quarter results demonstrated that credit performance in auto has stabilized as we continued to refine the indirect auto business model," said Loughlin. Losses in all other consumer portfolios, including credit cards and retail store lines of credit, increased only $32 million during the third quarter primarily due to slightly higher levels of bankruptcies and delinquency rates.
Credit performance in the commercial and commercial real estate portfolio remained strong, with credit losses of $125 million (0.37 percent of average loans) compared with $107 million (0.33 percent) in second quarter 2007. As is typical each quarter, the vast majority of these charge-offs came from the small business loan portfolio (loans under $100,000), which continued to perform as expected. "Because of our Wholesale Banking business model, focused primarily on middle-market customers and regional commercial real estate, we do not actively participate in many higher-risk activities," said Loughlin. "We did not create any structured investment vehicles to hold off-balance assets and have no direct exposure to hedge funds. LBO-related outstandings are diversified by business and borrower and at quarter end totaled less than 2 percent of total Wells Fargo loans. Our residential real estate development portfolio of less than $6 billion, or 2 percent of total loans, continued to perform in a satisfactory manner."
Total nonperforming assets were $3.18 billion (0.88 percent of loans) at September 30, 2007, compared with $2.72 billion (0.79 percent) at June 30, 2007, and $2.10 billion (0.68 percent) at September 30, 2006. The majority of the $468 million increase in nonperforming assets from second quarter 2007 was concentrated in the residential real estate portfolio. Commercial and commercial real estate nonperforming assets increased $124 million, as one large, residential real estate developer was moved to nonperforming status.
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing totaled $5.53 billion, $4.99 billion and $3.66 billion at September 30, 2007, June 30, 2007 and September 30, 2006, respectively. For the same periods, the total included $4.26 billion, $3.91 billion, and $2.69 billion, respectively, in advances pursuant to our servicing agreement to GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veteran Affairs.
 
The allowance for credit losses, including unfunded commitments, was $4.02 billion at September 30, 2007. "We believe the allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at September 30, 2007," said Loughlin. "We continue to monitor allowance adequacy in light of volatile economic and real estate markets."
Business Segment Performance
Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial.
More financial information about the business segments is on pages 27 and 28.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
Community Banking reported net income of $1.61 billion, up $112 million, or 8 percent, from third quarter 2006, due to strong fee income in retail banking and mortgage, as well as positive operating leverage. Noninterest income increased $618 million, or 25 percent, compared with third quarter 2006, largely due to increases related to brokerage, deposit service charges, cards, investments and mortgage banking. Noninterest expense increased $227 million, or 7 percent, due to growth in personnel expense. The provision for credit losses increased $210 million, or 89 percent, due primarily to higher losses in the home equity portfolio. Average loans increased $24.9 billion, or 14 percent, from third quarter 2006. Average core deposits grew $17.5 billion, or 8 percent, from third quarter 2006.
Regional Banking Highlights
 
"Thank you to our Regional Banking team for their continued focus on earning 100 percent of our customers' business," said Carrie Tolstedt, senior EVP, Community Banking. "We had solid results this quarter, with a record 5.25 million core product solutions provided to customers, up 9 percent from the prior year on a comparable basis. Our retail bank household cross-sell rose to a record high of 5.5, and 69 percent of new checking account customers purchased . Sales of store-based business solutions increased 16 percent from prior year on a comparable basis, and sales of rose 31 percent. We continue to perform 50,000 store-based customer surveys per month. For customers transacting at the teller line, welcoming and wait time survey scores were up 16 percent and customer loyalty scores improved 9 percent from same period last year. We opened 20 banking stores and converted 39 Placer Sierra Bancshares stores to our network, bringing our total retail store count to 3,283. To better serve our customers, we added 49 machines and converted 199 to machines bringing our total to 1,102, primarily in Northern California."
Wells Fargo Packages
Wells Fargo Business Services Packages
webATM
Envelope-Free
SM
webATM
Home Mortgage and Home Equity Highlights
"We experienced an extremely challenging business environment in the quarter for our home mortgage and home equity businesses as a result of the decline of home values and an unprecedented disruption in the secondary markets," said Mark Oman, senior EVP, Home and Consumer Finance Group. "This environment demonstrated the value of operating a balanced mortgage business model between originations and servicing businesses. While the performance of the origination business was negatively impacted by the lack of liquidity in the secondary market and widening of credit spreads, the servicing business performed well and benefited from many of the same market factors that adversely impacted the origination business.
"Given the uncertainty in the housing and capital markets, we took actions in both the home equity and home mortgage businesses to eliminate origination activities where we didn't think we could be both competitively priced and appropriately compensated for risk. These actions, along with an industry-wide origination slowdown, contributed to a 12 percent reduction in residential real estate originations from third quarter 2006. The mortgage market disruptions have also created opportunities for us to strengthen our mortgage sales force by selectively hiring highly-successful sales representatives from our competitors."
 
The National Home Equity Group portfolio was $83 billion at September 30, 2007, up 7 percent from a year ago. Growth of this portfolio has slowed, and the portfolio had significantly higher credit losses than it has historically experienced as a result of the continuing decline in home values.
Wealth Management Group Highlights
Internet Highlights
,
Wholesale Banking
serves customers coast to coast
including middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, capital markets activities and institutional investments.
"Wells Fargo's wholesale businesses continued to perform well despite a challenging environment," said Dave Hoyt, senior EVP, Wholesale Banking Group. "Our disciplined lending and investing approach positions us well for economic cycles and has allowed us to maintain a conservative risk profile relative to the industry. The market volatility helped several of our businesses, including foreign exchange and financial products, set new volume records. Recent acquisitions like CIT Construction have been successfully integrated, and we're seeing the benefits of those acquisitions for Wells Fargo and our customers."
 
Wholesale Banking's net income was $543 million, up 6 percent from a year ago. For the first nine months of 2007, Wholesale Banking reported net income of $1.7 billion, up 11 percent from the same period of 2006. Third quarter 2007 revenue increased 12 percent to $2.0 billion from a year ago, driven by strong loan and deposit growth and higher fee income. Average loans reached $87.5 billion, up 21 percent from a year ago, with double-digit increases across nearly all wholesale lending businesses. Average core deposits were $55.5 billion, up 52 percent from a year ago, all in interest-bearing balances, reflecting a combination of organic growth from new and existing customers and conversions, completed in 2006, of customer sweep accounts from off-balance sheet money market funds into Wells Fargo deposits. Noninterest income increased $116 million from third quarter 2006 due to higher commercial real estate brokerage fees, trust and investment income (reflecting a 14 percent increase in assets under management), foreign exchange and insurance revenue, partially offset by a lower level of capital markets activity. Noninterest expense increased $155 million from a year ago, mainly due to higher personnel-related costs, including additional team members and higher incentive expenses, and expenses associated with higher sales volumes and acquisitions completed in the latter part of 2006.
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer loans primarily through real-estate debt consolidation products, automobile financing, consumer and private-label credit cards and commercial services to consumers and businesses throughout the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the Pacific Rim.
"We continued to see solid performance from our real-estate secured product, despite pressures brought on by the housing markets," said Tom Shippee, Wells Fargo Financial president and CEO. "Credit quality remained sound, as real estate losses and delinquencies in the quarter were within our model. Losses in our auto portfolio were down $32 million year over year, but up $57 million from second quarter 2007 due to seasonality. We continued to conservatively manage growth in the auto portfolio, with receivables flat on a linked-quarter basis, and saw positive results from the additional collection capacity added late last year. Delinquencies have increased due to seasonality, but total and 90-day results improved over third quarter 2006. We continue to manage our store network and reduce redundancy. Through third quarter 2007, approximately 8 percent of our Wells Fargo Financial store locations have been closed and team members have been redeployed to other locations, which will improve the overall effectiveness and efficiency of our store operations."
Wells Fargo Financial's net income was $135 million in third quarter 2007, down 29 percent, or $56 million, from a year ago. For the first nine months of 2007, Wells Fargo Financial reported net income of $403 million, down 42 percent, or $291 million, from the same period of 2006. Prior year
 
results included a $50 million reversal of the allowance for credit losses previously established for Hurricane Katrina. Third quarter 2007 revenue of $1.4 billion was virtually flat compared with third quarter 2006. Average loans reached $65.8 billion, up 11 percent from a year ago due primarily to 24 percent growth in the real estate loan portfolio. Noninterest expense increased 6 percent, or $38 million, to $728 million from a year ago, primarily due to increased collection capacity added in the auto business.
Recorded Message
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results and characteristics of several of the loan portfolios will be available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time. The recorded call will be available through October 19, 2007. Dial 877-660-6853 (domestic) or 201-612-7415 (international). Enter account number 286# and conference ID 255747#. The call is also available on the internet at and
www.wellsfargo.com/ir
http://www.vcall.com/IC/CEPage.asp?ID=120904.
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company, including statements that:
Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations, including further deterioration in the credit quality of our home equity, real estate, auto or other loan portfolios, or in the value of the collateral securing those loans, due to higher interest rates, increased unemployment, a decline in home or auto values, or other economic factors. For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, as updated by our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the SEC's website at .
www.sec.gov
Any factor described in this news release or in any document referred to in this news release could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $549 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through almost 6,000 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the U.S., and one of only two banks worldwide, to have the highest credit rating from both Moody's Investors Service, "Aaa," and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, "AAA."
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (1)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA


