FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20080416080200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 2.02  
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 16, 2008, Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. The text of the press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report. The information included in the press release is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company will include complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01  
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported diluted earnings per common share of $0.60 for first quarter 2008 compared with $0.66 in first quarter 2007 and $0.41 in fourth quarter 2007. Net income was $2.00 billion compared with $2.24 billion in first quarter 2007 and $1.36 billion in fourth quarter 2007.
"Despite a weakening economy, the continued downturn in housing and expected higher charge-offs, this was a remarkably strong quarter of growth for our company  very impressive growth in loans at wider spreads, a 9 percent increase in core deposits, double-digit revenue growth once again exceeding expense growth, and increases in both our capital and liquidity levels," said President and CEO John Stumpf. "Our talented team set new records in products per customer for both retail and wholesale because our time-tested business model is built on satisfying all our customers' financial needs and helping them succeed financially. We may not have seen the last of the challenges for this cycle, but we're very excited about our opportunities to continue to gain market share prudently in our core businesses at a time when many of our competitors are struggling. With our more than 80 businesses pulling the stagecoach, we believe we're among the best positioned in our industry to prosper and grow through adversity and to build an even stronger franchise for our team members, customers and shareholders."
"Our first quarter results reflected a great combination of solid business growth, strong operating margins and further balance sheet strengthening," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "Despite a $2.0 billion pre-tax provision for credit losses  including an additional $500 million credit reserve build in the quarter  the Company earned $2.0 billion after-tax, or $0.60 per share. Our ability to earn through these higher net credit losses reflected the benefit of our diversified business model, as well as the attractive growth opportunities we are realizing in this challenging environment. Our pre-tax pre-provision profit (revenue less noninterest expense) of $5.1 billion  a quarterly record  grew 30 percent from a year ago, driven by double-digit revenue growth (up 12 percent year over year) and positive operating leverage. Even with higher credit costs, return on assets (1.40 percent) and return on equity (16.86 percent) remained strong. Our net interest margin improved 7 basis points to 4.69 percent, one of the highest among large U.S. bank holding companies. Credit reserves were bolstered this quarter with an additional $500 million reserve build, capital ratios increased from year-end 2007 notwithstanding a 16 percent (annualized) linked-quarter increase in earning assets and liquidity remained strong due largely to continued core deposit growth."
Financial Performance
Revenue of $10.6 billion was another record, up $1.1 billion, or 12 percent, from a year ago. On a linked-quarter basis, revenue grew 14 percent (annualized). "Once again, many of our businesses achieved double-digit, year-over-year revenue growth, including commercial banking, asset-based lending, insurance, international, wealth management, regional banking, debit and credit cards, mortgage banking, business direct, SBA lending and business payroll services," said Atkins. "We continued to have a good balance between loan and deposit spread revenue and fee-based revenue, reflecting record cross-sell in both our retail and wholesale businesses."
Revenue
Average loans of $383.9 billion increased $62.5 billion, or 19 percent, from a year ago. On a linked-quarter basis, average loans grew $9.5 billion, or 10 percent (annualized). Average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $31.2 billion, or 25 percent, from first quarter 2007 and increased $6.4 billion, or 17 percent (annualized), from fourth quarter 2007, the 14 consecutive
Loans
th
 
quarter of double-digit, year-over-year growth. Average consumer loans increased $30.6 billion, or 16 percent, from first quarter 2007 and increased $3.5 billion, or 6 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis.
"We continued to see growth in both our commercial and consumer lending segments," said Atkins. "Recently we've seen more modest consumer loan growth, in part due to reduced demand as many consumers reduce their debt, as well as actions we've taken since early 2007 to reduce higher-risk products in our loan portfolio, including exiting or curtailing indirect loan origination channels, tightening loan-to-value requirements and strengthening loan account management across all portfolios."
Average core deposits of $317.3 billion increased $26.7 billion, or 9 percent, from a year ago and increased $2.5 billion, or 3 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $20.4 billion, down $205 million from first quarter 2007 and up $572 million on a linked-quarter basis. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 10 percent from first quarter 2007 and 3 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. Average retail core deposits grew $11.5 billion, or 5 percent, from first quarter 2007 and increased $2.3 billion, or 4 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Average new consumer checking accounts grew a net 4.9 percent from first quarter 2007.
Deposits
Net interest income increased $750 million, or 15 percent, from first quarter 2007 and increased $272 million, or 20 percent (annualized), on a linked-quarter basis. Average earning assets grew 21 percent year over year and increased 16 percent (annualized) from fourth quarter 2007. "Even with the strong growth in average earning assets, our net interest margin widened to 4.69 percent, up 7 basis points on a linked-quarter basis," said Atkins.
Net Interest Income
Noninterest income rose to $4.8 billion, up 8 percent from first quarter 2007 and up 7 percent (annualized) on a linked-quarter basis. "Fee income growth largely reflected continued success in satisfying the financial needs of our customers, with cross-sell reaching a record 5.6 products in retail and 6.2 in wholesale," said Atkins. Fee income growth was particularly strong year over year in insurance (up 26 percent), debit and credit card fees (up 19 percent) and deposit service charges (up 9 percent), with solid growth in trust and investment fees (up 4 percent despite a 7 percent decline in the S&P500 Index). Net gains from equity investments increased $216 million from a year ago, reflecting the $334 million gain in the quarter from the Company's ownership in Visa, which completed its initial public offering (IPO) in March.
Noninterest Income
Interest rate and credit spread volatility was particularly pronounced in the first quarter. The more significant market-related effects included:
 
Unrealized net losses on securities available for sale were $598 million at March 31, 2008, compared with unrealized net gains of $680 million at December 31, 2007. "The available for sale portfolio consists of agency mortgage-backed securities, which have appreciated in value since the end of the year, as well as other high-quality securities, mostly AAA-rated, purchased over the past few quarters at attractive long-term yields in a period when credit spreads have continued to widen," said Atkins.
Noninterest expense of $5.46 billion declined 1 percent, or $64 million, from first quarter 2007 and declined $438 million on a linked-quarter basis, and included a $151 million reversal of Visa litigation expense related to the Visa IPO. First quarter 2008 expenses also included higher sales-related insurance costs, as well as higher costs under the Federal Insurance Contribution Act (FICA), software licensing expense and stock option expense (fully phased in expenses of prior option grants under FAS 123(R)), more than offset by lower salaries, incentive compensation (reduced incentive compensation accruals) and outside professional services costs. "We continued to invest in growing our businesses, opening 11 banking stores and converting 18 Greater Bay Bancorp stores during the quarter," said Atkins. First quarter 2008 included $11 million of integration expense. The efficiency ratio improved to 51.7 percent from 57.8 percent in fourth quarter 2007. The Visa IPO gain and litigation reversal improved the first quarter 2008 efficiency ratio by 316 basis points.
Noninterest Expense
"The credit environment remained challenging this quarter," said Chief Credit Officer Mike Loughlin. First quarter 2008 net charge-offs were $1.5 billion (1.60 percent of average total loans, annualized) compared with $1.2 billion (1.28 percent) in fourth quarter 2007 and $715 million (0.90 percent) in first quarter 2007. Total provision expense in first quarter was $2.0 billion, including a $500 million credit reserve build, primarily for losses in the National Home Equity Group (Home Equity) and Business Direct (primarily unsecured lines of credit to small businesses) portfolios.
Credit Quality
 
More than half of the increase in net credit losses ($161 million) was in the real estate 1-4 family junior lien category, primarily from Home Equity. "Residential real estate values continued to decline in the quarter and the number of markets adversely impacted continued to increase," said Loughlin. As previously disclosed, the Company segregated approximately $12 billion of Home Equity loans into a liquidating portfolio. The liquidating portfolio produced $163 million in net charge-offs in first quarter 2008, for an annualized quarterly loss rate of 5.58 percent, 78 basis points higher than the December 2007 annualized loss rate. See page 29 for selected data on the Home Equity portfolios.
Other consumer portfolios performed as expected during the quarter. Charge-offs in the real estate 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio increased $41 million in the first quarter, including an increase of $19 million in the Home Mortgage portfolio and $14 million in the Wells Fargo Financial debt consolidation portfolio, but were still at relatively low levels. The increase in mortgage loss rates was consistent with the continued declines in home prices. Despite a $52 million increase in card charge-offs linked quarter, the credit card portfolio continued to perform as expected. Delinquency in the auto portfolio improved in the first quarter and losses were stable. "This portfolio has received significant management attention and the changes in underwriting and collections made in 2006 and 2007 have reduced losses," said Loughlin.
Commercial and commercial real estate net charge-offs increased $66 million from fourth quarter 2007. The vast majority of commercial loans (other real estate mortgage, real estate construction and lease financing) continued to perform as expected and losses remained modest. However, losses have increased in the Business Direct portfolio, with net charge-offs up $40 million from fourth quarter 2007. These lines have tended to perform like credit cards. "Most of the increase occurred in certain metropolitan areas within California, Nevada and Florida, and appears to be concentrated in industries related to real estate or where the business owner may be experiencing difficulty with a home loan," said Loughlin.
 
Total nonperforming assets were $4.50 billion (1.16 percent of total loans) at March 31, 2008, and included $3.26 billion of nonperforming loans, $578 million of insured Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) repurchases, and $658 million of foreclosed and repossessed real estate and autos. This compares with $3.87 billion (1.01 percent) at December 31, 2007, consisting of $2.68 billion of nonperforming loans, $535 million of GNMA repurchases and $654 million of foreclosed and repossessed assets. The majority of the increase in nonperforming assets was in portfolios affected by the residential real estate issues, including $214 million in Wells Fargo Financial real estate, $119 million in commercial lending, primarily in loans to home builders and developers, and $99 million in Home Equity. "As in the prior quarter, we continued to hold more foreclosed properties than we have historically," said Loughlin.
Nonperforming Assets
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing totaled $6.92 billion, $6.39 billion and $4.81 billion at March 31, 2008, December 31, 2007, and March 31, 2007, respectively. For the same periods, the total included $5.29 billion, $4.83 billion and $3.68 billion, respectively, in advances under the Company's servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage pools and similar loans whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing (Excluding Insured/Guaranteed GNMA and Similar Loans)
The allowance for credit losses, including unfunded credit commitments, was $6.01 billion at March 31, 2008, up 9 percent from $5.52 billion at year-end 2007, and included an additional $500 million in credit reserves due to higher credit losses inherent in the loan portfolio. "The $6.01 billion allowance provides increased coverage consistent with the continued weakness in the residential real estate markets and emerging losses in our Business Direct portfolio," said Loughlin. "We believe the allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at March 31, 2008."
Allowance for Credit Losses
 
Wells Fargo has three lines of business for management reporting: Community Banking, Wholesale Banking and Wells Fargo Financial. Net income for each of the three business segments was:
Business Segment Performance
More financial information about the business segments is on page 25.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services primarily in 23 midwestern and western states, and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states.
Community Banking reported net income of $1.4 billion in first quarter 2008, down $72 million from a year ago. Revenue increased $944 million driven by strong loan and deposit growth, and strong fee income growth in both retail and mortgage banking. Average loans of $214.9 billion grew 19 percent and average core deposits of $248.4 billion grew 5 percent. Noninterest income increased $458 million from first quarter 2007 driven by double-digit growth in cards and mortgage banking, and strong growth in deposit service charges. Although the business continued to make investments in technology, distribution and sales staff, noninterest expense decreased $234 million, or 7 percent. The provision for credit losses increased $1 billion, including a $385 million credit reserve build. During the quarter, the effect from the Visa IPO consisted of the $334 million gain and $151 million litigation reversal.
 
"Our talented, innovative and hardworking team continued to focus on our vision of helping to satisfy all our customers' financial needs, providing a record 5.82 million core product solutions in the first quarter, up 17 percent from the prior year," said Carrie Tolstedt, senior EVP, Community Banking. "For the first time ever, we provided over two million solutions to customers in a single month and had record retail bank household cross-sell of 5.6. These results were primarily driven by strong growth in core sales per platform banker FTE of 11 percent, while growing our platform banker FTE by 7 percent from the prior year. In March, we also successfully converted our stores from Greater Bay Bancorp to our network."
"Our team managed very well through a very challenging and volatile quarter, producing solid results while gaining market share," said Mark Oman, senior EVP, Home and Consumer Finance Group. "The effect of the continued lack of liquidity in the private mortgage-backed securities markets, and strong consumer preference for fixed-rate loans, has resulted in a significant marketplace shift toward FHA, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac guaranteed mortgages  a traditional strength of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage.
"Even with our 2007 actions to exit or reduce volumes in certain channels and products, we had a strong production quarter, with applications up 17 percent from the prior year, and up 45 percent linked quarter. Home Mortgage originations were up 22 percent linked quarter, and up 7 percent from the prior year, reflecting a 13 percent decline in correspondent and wholesale originations and a 31 percent increase in higher-margin retail originations. We ended the quarter with an application pipeline of $61 billion, up 42 percent from year-end 2007.
"In addition, our mortgage team continued to reduce costs, strengthen our mortgage sales force by selectively hiring highly successful sales representatives from competitors, growing our servicing portfolio and working hard to keep customers in their homes."
 
,
Wholesale Banking
serves customers coast to coast
including middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, corporate trust, capital markets activities and asset management.
"Despite the unsettled financial markets, our focus continues to be on relationships," said Dave Hoyt, senior EVP, Wholesale Banking Group. "Our wholesale banking team provides products and services to help our customers manage their businesses more effectively, manage their risks and grow their businesses.
"Our core performance this quarter was strong, with good underlying fundamental business growth. In times like these, we continue to see opportunities across virtually all of our businesses. We find opportunities to do more with existing customers and to build new relationships. We reached a record 6.2 products per wholesale customer relationship and 7.7 products per middle-market commercial banking relationship. Almost one of every three of our commercial banking offices has more than 8 products per customer relationship.
"More of our customers are doing business abroad, and our continued investment in technology and global treasury management services helps our customers expand internationally. International Treasury Management revenue increased 17 percent over the same period last year. Our foreign exchange trading desks  one of North America's biggest networks  help our customers maintain cross-border relationships during rapid currency fluctuations. Foreign exchange revenue increased 36 percent over the same period last year."
 
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $475 million in first quarter 2008, down $158 million from a year ago. Revenue increased $80 million, driven by strong loan and deposit growth and moderate fee income growth. Average loans grew to $100.6 billion, up 29 percent from a year ago, with double-digit increases across nearly all wholesale lending businesses. Average core deposits were $68.9 billion, up 29 percent from a year ago, all in interest-bearing balances. Noninterest income decreased $97 million from first quarter 2007. Higher trust and investment fees (reflecting a 20 percent increase in assets under management), deposit service charges, foreign exchange, institutional brokerage, financial products and insurance revenue were offset by a lower level of commercial real estate brokerage and capital markets activity. Noninterest expense increased $208 million from a year ago, mainly due to higher personnel-related costs, including additional team members, as well as insurance commissions and expenses related to higher financial product sales and the liability recorded for a capital support agreement for a structured investment vehicle. Provision for credit losses increased $148 million from first quarter 2007, including $61 million from higher net charge-offs and $87 million of additional provision taken to build reserves for the wholesale loan portfolio.
Wells Fargo Financial
offers consumer loans primarily through real estate-secured debt consolidation products, automobile financing, consumer and private-label credit cards and commercial services to consumers and businesses throughout the United States, Canada, Puerto Rico and the Pacific Rim.
"In a challenging economic environment, our net income was lower than the first quarter last year but increased 24 percent on a linked-quarter basis," said Tom Shippee, president and CEO of Wells Fargo Financial. "Year-over-year loan and revenue growth coupled with decreasing expenses  as we continue to aggressively manage costs  was a positive combination. Right-sizing our business and proactively managing expenses has helped offset the effects of the general economic decline. Credit losses and delinquencies increased in most of our portfolios, but overall performance was solid despite broad stress in the consumer finance industry.
"We have worked diligently to help keep customers in their homes whenever possible if they have financial trouble. We continued to adjust our underwriting standards to effectively manage risk in this environment. Real estate loans were up 3 percent linked quarter, due in part to slower loan prepayments. Based on the current interest rate environment, starting in the second quarter most of our adjustable-rate mortgages resetting throughout the rest of 2008 should be at or below their current rate, thereby reducing customers' monthly payments. This is another positive result of our sound underwriting policies.
 
"Lower volume levels in our auto lending business resulted in a 4 percent decline in the portfolio's average loans over the previous quarter. Delinquencies classified as 31-days plus on a six-month lag basis improved 15 percent from first quarter 2007, benefiting from our commitment to an improved collections process. However, real estate delinquencies continued to increase, consistent with the general condition of the housing market. Real estate losses in the U.S. debt consolidation portfolio increased to $34 million (0.56 percent annualized loss rate) from $18 million (0.31 percent) in the prior quarter. Stress in the real estate portfolio affected our credit card customers as well, with loss rates on that portfolio up 16 percent on a linked-quarter basis."
First quarter revenue was up 7 percent from a year ago to $1.4 billion driven by 9 percent growth in average loans. Provision for credit losses increased $158 million, including $130 million from higher net charge-offs and $28 million of additional loan provision. Noninterest expense declined 5 percent from first quarter 2007.
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results is available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through April 19, 2008. Dial 877-660-6853 (domestic) or 201-612-7415 (international). Enter account number 286 and conference ID 280323. The call is also available on the internet at and .
Recorded Message
www.wellsfargo.com/ir
http://www.investorcalendar.com/IC/CEPage.asp?ID=127666
The following appears in accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
This news release contains forward-looking statements about the Company, including the statement that we believe we're among the best positioned in our industry to prosper and grow through adversity and to build an even stronger franchise, the statement that, based on the current interest rate environment, starting in second quarter 2008, most of our adjustable-rate mortgages resetting in 2008 should be at or below their current rate, and various statements of our beliefs and expectations for future credit quality and losses. Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They give our expectations about the future and are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.
There are a number of factors that could cause results to differ significantly from our expectations, including further deterioration in the credit quality of our home equity, real estate, auto or other loan portfolios, or in the value of the collateral securing those loans, due to higher interest rates, increased unemployment, declining home or auto values, economic recession or other economic factors. For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, including information incorporated into the 10-K from our 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and available on the SEC's website at
www.sec.gov.
Any factor described in this news release or in any document referred to in this news release could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect the Company's business, earnings and/or financial condition.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $595 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through almost 6,000 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and elsewhere internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. is the only bank in the U.S., and one of only two banks worldwide, to have the highest possible credit rating from both Moody's Investors Service, "Aaa," and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, "AAA."
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
 
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
 
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
NM  Not meaningful
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
 
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (
)(
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 1
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (
)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIO DATA


