FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20081105162045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
                                                                                                                                                                       &nbs p;                                                                                                                                             
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a -12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d -2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
 
           
This material includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements include, but are not limited to, statements about added earnings and other benefits of the merger between Wells Fargo and Wachovia, the amount and timing of expected credit loss recognition and integration costs in connection with the merger, and the combined company's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions for the future. You should not unduly rely on forward-looking statements. They are based on the current beliefs and expectations of Wells Fargo's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this presentation, and Wells Fargo does not undertake to update such statements to reflect changes that occur after that date. Analyst earnings estimates are included for illustra tive purposes only and are not projections of Wells Fargo or Wachovia.
           
There are a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: the risk that the credit crisis will continue longer or be more severe than expected; the risk that Wells Fargo will incur more credit losses from Wachovia's loan portfolio than expected; the inability to obtain required approvals of the merger from regulatory authorities on the proposed terms and schedule; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that cost savings and other expected benefits of the merger may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; the risk that deposit attrition will be greater than expected; the risk that disruption from the merger may make it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the risk of new and changing g overnmental regulation; and the exposure of Wells Fargo to additional litigation as a result of the merger. Additional factors are described in Wells Fargo's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, as updated by Wells Fargo's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. Such reports are available on the website of the Securities and Exchange Commission (www.sec.gov).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
News
Release
Corporate Communications
SAN FRANCISCO, November 5, 2008  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC)
announced
today a proposed offering of $10 billion of common stock to the public.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. is acting as global coordinator for the offering, and Goldman, Sachs & Co., Morgan Stanley, UBS Investment Bank and Wachovia Securities are joint bookrunning managers.
Wells Fargo has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the offering. Prospective investors should read the prospectus in that registration statement, the preliminary prospectus supplement and other documents Wells Fargo has filed with the SEC for more complete information about Wells Fargo and the offering. Investors may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, Wells Fargo, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send investors the prospectus if requested by contacting J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Chase Distribution & Support Service, Attn: Charles Buckheit/Bob Foley, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245 or by calling 718-242-8002.
This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
This news release contains statements that do not directly or exclusively relate to historical facts. These types of statements are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All forward-looking statements rely on assumptions and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause Wells Fargo's actual results to differ materially from expectations. You should read and interpret any forward-looking statements together with the risk factors contained under the caption "Risk Factors" in the prospectus supplement for the offering to which this release relates and Wells Fargo's other SEC filings. Any forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which that statement is made. Wells Fargo will not update any forward-looking statement to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date on which the statement is made.
CONFERENCE CALL INFORMATION
Wells Fargo will host a conference call Wednesday, November 5, 2008, at 1:45p.m. (Pacific Time) to discuss details of the offering. It's highly recommended for all parties to dial into the conference line at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. Investors can call (877) 425-9480 (domestic) and (201) 689-8848 (international) with the access code 302565, or listen via live audio webcast. The live audio webcast and presentation visuals will be available on
http://www.wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/presents
or
http://www.investorcalendar.com/IC/CEPage.asp?ID=137332
. A replay of the conference call
will be available through November 12, 2008 at (866) 519-1052 (domestic) and (585) 295-6792
(international). The replay also will be available online.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $622 billion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through almost 6,000 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally.

Exhibit 99.2


