FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20081121164842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     This Form 8-K/A amends Item 8.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Wells Fargo & Company ("Wells Fargo") on October 30, 2008 to update the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information attached thereto as Exhibit 99.1, including to give effect to Wells Fargo's capital issuances to the Department of the Treasury on October 28, 2008 and Wells Fargo's common stock offering on November 13, 2008.
     Updated unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of Wells Fargo & Company of our reports dated February 25, 2008, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of Wachovia Corporation and Subsidiaries ("Wachovia") as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, which report appears in the Form 8-K of Wells Fargo & Company dated October 30, 2008. Our report on the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, dated February 25, 2008, refers to Wachovia's change in the method of accounting for income tax uncertainties, leveraged leases, hybrid financial instruments, collateral associated with derivative contracts and life insurance in 2007 and refers to a change in the method of accounting for mortgage servicing rights, stock-based compensation and pension and other postretirement plans in 2006.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP Charlotte, North Carolina November 20, 2008

 
Exhibit 99.1  
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and explanatory notes show the impact on the historical financial positions and results of operations of Wells Fargo & Company (Wells Fargo) and Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) of the merger (Merger) involving Wells Fargo and Wachovia under the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method of accounting, the assets and liabilities of Wachovia will be recorded by Wells Fargo at their respective fair values as of the date the Merger is completed. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information combines the historical financial information of Wells Fargo and Wachovia as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2008, and for the year ended December 31, 2007. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2008, assumes the Merger was completed on that date. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income give effect to the Merger as if the Merger had been completed at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
 
The Merger, which is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2008, provides for the exchange of 0.1991 shares of Wells Fargo common stock for each share of outstanding Wachovia common stock. Each outstanding share of each series of Wachovia preferred stock will be converted into a share (or fraction of a share) of a corresponding series of Wells Fargo preferred stock having terms substantially identical to that series of Wachovia preferred stock. At September 30, 2008, Wells Fargo had three pending acquisitions (exclusive of the Merger) with total assets of approximately $1.6 billion, and it is expected that approximately 5.9 million common shares will be issued upon consummation of these acquisitions. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined information does not give effect to these other pending acquisitions as they are not material to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, either individually or in the aggregate. On October 20, 2008 and in connection with the Merger, Wachovia issued preferred stock to Wells Fargo representing 39.9 percent of the total voting power of Wachovia capital stock entitled to vote at the Wachovia special meeting relating to the Merger. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to this issuance which would in any event be eliminated from the pro forma presentation as it will be fully eliminated in consolidation.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet also includes the effects of Wells Fargo's capital issuances to the Department of the Treasury on October 28, 2008 and Wells Fargo's common stock offering on November 13, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income give effect to these capital issuances at the beginning of the earliest period presented.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been derived from and should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
Wachovia's historical unaudited financial statements as of and for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 and Wachovia's historical audited financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2007 are included as Exhibit 99.2 to Wells Fargo's Current Report on filed October 30, 2008.
Form 8-K
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not necessarily indicate the financial results of the combined companies had the companies
 
actually been combined at the beginning of each period presented. The adjustments included in these unaudited pro forma condensed financial statements are preliminary and may be revised. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information also does not consider any potential impacts of current market conditions on revenues, potential revenue enhancements, anticipated cost savings and expense efficiencies, or asset dispositions, among other factors. Further, as explained in more detail in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, the pro forma allocation of purchase price reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is subject to adjustment and may vary significantly from the actual purchase price allocation that will be recorded at the time the Merger is completed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been prepared using the purchase method of accounting, giving effect to the merger involving Wells Fargo & Company (Wells Fargo) and Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) (Merger) as if it had occurred as of the beginning of the earliest period presented. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations or financial position had the Merger been consummated at the beginning of the period presented, nor is it necessarily indicative of the results of operations in future periods or the future financial position of the combined entities. Certain historical financial information has been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. The Merger, which is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2008, provides for issuance of 0.1991 shares of Wells Fargo common stock for each share of outstanding Wachovia common stock, and is subject to Wachovia shareholder approval. Each outstanding share of each series of Wachovia preferred stock will be converted into a share (or fraction of a share) of a corresponding series of Wells Fargo preferred stock having terms substantially identical to that series of Wachovia preferred stock. At September 30, 2008, Wells Fargo had three pending acquisitions (exclusive of the Merger) with total assets of approximately $1.6 billion, and it is expected that approximately 5.9 million common shares will be issued upon consummation of these acquisitions. The unaudited pro forma information does not give effect to these other pending acquisitions as they are not material to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information, either individually or in the aggregate. On October 20, 2008 and in connection with the Merger, Wachovia issued preferred stock to Wells Fargo representing 39.9 percent of the total voting power of Wachovia capital stock entitled to vote at the Wachovia special meeting relating to the Merger. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to this issuance as it will be fully eliminated in consolidation.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes preliminary estimated adjustments to record assets and liabilities of Wachovia at their respective fair values and represents management's estimates based on available information. The pro forma adjustments included herein are subject to updates as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. The final allocation of the purchase price will be determined after the Merger is completed and after completion of thorough analyses to determine the fair value of Wachovia's tangible and identifiable intangible assets and liabilities as of the date the Merger is completed. Increases or decreases in the estimated fair values of the net assets, commitments, executory contracts, and other items of Wachovia as compared with the information shown in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information may change the amount of the purchase price allocated to goodwill and other assets and liabilities and may impact the statement of income due to adjustments in yield amortization of the adjusted assets or liabilities. Any changes to Wachovia's stockholders' equity including results of operations from October 1, 2008, through the date the Merger is completed will also change the amount of goodwill recorded.
and/or
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements assume that the Merger will close in fourth quarter 2008. However, if the Merger is consummated on or after January 1, 2009, the Merger will be accounted for under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (revised 2007), (SFAS 141R). SFAS 141R would require that the purchase price be determined based on Wells Fargo's closing stock price on the date the Merger is consummated, that the loan portfolio consisting of both impaired loans, as defined, and nonimpaired loans, be recorded at fair value, with no carry-over of the allowance for credit losses, and that contingent assets and liabilities be recorded at fair value. Further, SFAS 141R would require that Merger-related exit and termination costs be recorded to expense as incurred.
Business Combinations
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet also includes the effects of Wells Fargo's capital issuances to the Department of the Treasury on October 28, 2008 and Wells Fargo's common stock
 
 
 
offering on November 13, 2008. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income give effect to these capital issuances at the beginning of the earliest period presented (see Note 7).
 
 
The accounting policies of both Wells Fargo and Wachovia are in the process of being reviewed in detail. Upon completion of such review, conforming adjustments or financial statement reclassifications may be determined. The allowance for credit losses could represent a significant conforming change based on a detailed analysis of methodologies employed by Wells Fargo and Wachovia. For example, the loss emergence periods used for various loan product classes, the estimated probability of default, the loss given default and the asset quality ratings assigned to specific credits may differ and require conformity. Further, other conforming adjustments could be determined based on the accounting policy review. Aside from Wells Fargo's investment in preferred securities issued by Wachovia, as further discussed below in Note 5, transactions between Wells Fargo and Wachovia are not material in relation to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
 
 
In connection with the Merger, the plan to integrate Wells Fargo's and Wachovia's operations is still being developed. The total integration costs have been preliminarily estimated to be approximately $7.9 billion ($5.0 billion after tax), of which approximately $3.1 billion ($2.0 billion after tax) are estimated to be recorded in purchase accounting. The specific details of these plans will continue to be refined over the next several months. Currently, our merger integration team is assessing the two companies' operations, including information systems, premises, equipment, benefit plans, supply chain methodologies, service contracts and personnel to determine optimum strategies to realize cost savings. Our merger integration decisions will impact certain existing Wachovia facilities (both leased and owned), information systems, supplier contracts and costs associated with the involuntary termination of personnel. Additionally, as part of our formulation of the merger integration plan, certain actions regarding existing Wells Fargo information systems, premises, equipment, benefit plans, supply chain methodologies, supplier contracts and involuntary termination of personnel may be taken. To the extent there are costs associated with these actions, the costs will be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions. We expect that such decisions will be completed after the Merger. The estimated non-recurring charge consists of the following:
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not reflect any benefit expected from revenue enhancements or derived from potential cost savings related to the Merger. Although management anticipates revenue enhancements and annual cost savings of approximately $5.0 billion before taxes that will result from the Merger, there can be no assurance these items will be achieved.
 
 
 
 
The following pro forma adjustments have been reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information. All adjustments are based on current assumptions and valuations which are subject to change.
 
Balance Sheet Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pro forma combined earnings (loss) and diluted earnings (loss) per share for the respective periods presented are based on the combined weighted average number of common and diluted potential common shares of Wells Fargo and Wachovia. The number of weighted average common shares, including all diluted potential common shares, reflects the exchange of 0.1991 shares of Wells Fargo common stock for each share of Wachovia stock. Amounts used in the determination of the pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At September 30, 2008 and December 31, 2007, options and warrants to purchase 307.7 million and 20.3 million shares, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per common share because the exercise price was higher than the market price (antidilutive).
 
 
Effective October 28, 2008, at the request of the Department of the Treasury, Wells Fargo issued $25.0 billion of securities to the Department of the Treasury, consisting of preferred stock of approximately $22.7 billion and common stock warrants with an estimated fair value of $2.3 billion, all of which are classified as Tier I capital for regulatory purposes. Additionally, on November 13, 2008, Wells Fargo issued 469 million shares of common stock with net proceeds of approximately $12.3 billion.
 
 
 
 
The Department of the Treasury, as part of the preferred stock issuance, received warrants to purchase approximately 110.3 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock at an initial exercise per share price of $34.01 (based on the trailing 20 day Wells Fargo average stock price as of October 10, 2008). The pro forma adjustment shows the increase in diluted shares outstanding assuming that the warrants had been issued on January 1, 2007 at an exercise price of $34.01 and remained outstanding for the periods presented. The treasury stock method was utilized to determine dilution of the warrants for the periods presented. See Note 6.
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information reflects the issuance of approximately 430 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock totaling approximately $14.7 billion. Each outstanding share of each series of Wachovia preferred stock will be converted into one share of a corresponding series of Wells Fargo preferred stock having terms substantially identical to that series of Wachovia preferred stock. The Merger will be accounted for using the purchase method of accounting; accordingly Wells Fargo's cost to acquire Wachovia will be allocated to the assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities of Wachovia at their respective estimated fair values as of the Merger date. Accordingly, the pro forma purchase price was preliminarily allocated to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values as summarized in the following table:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income presents the pro forma results assuming the consummation occurred at the earliest date presented, January 1, 2007. As required by Article 11, the pro forma financial statements for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 do not reflect any adjustments to eliminate Wachovia's historical provision for credit losses and goodwill impairment charges.
Regulation S-X
 
Had the acquisition been consummated on January 1, 2007, the application of purchase accounting as required by FAS 141, , would have resulted in the acquired assets and liabilities being recorded at fair value with any excess fair value recorded as goodwill as of that date. Had the companies been combined as of the earliest date of these pro forma financial statements, management believes that Wachovia's goodwill charges amounting to $24.8 billion would not have been required as the assets and liabilities of Wachovia would have been reflected at fair value due to the application of purchase accounting.
Business Combinations
 
Wachovia's provision for credit losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2008 reflects approximately $10.4 billion that relates to loans subject to and accordingly are adjusted for life of loan write-downs (see Balance Sheet Adjustment C in Note 5). Management believes that this provision would not have been recorded had full purchase accounting under FAS 141 been applied in the pro forma financial statements on January 1, 2007.
SOP 03-3


