FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20090908131053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibits are filed herewith in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-159736) filed by Wells Fargo & Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
On September 8, 2009, Wells Fargo & Company issued its Notes Linked to the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund due September 8, 2011 (the "Notes").
The purpose of this Current Report is to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the form of the Note related to such issuance, the Opinion of Mary E. Schaffner, Esq. regarding the Notes and the opinion of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, Wells Fargo & Company's special tax counsel, regarding the Notes.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on September 8, 2009.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, an amount equal to the Maturity Payment Amount (as defined below), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, on the Stated Maturity Date. The "" shall be September 8, 2011. If no Market Disruption Event (as defined below) occurs or is continuing on the scheduled Valuation Date (as defined below), the Initial Stated Maturity Date will be the "." If a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on the scheduled Valuation Date, the "" shall be the later of (i) three Business Days (as defined below) after the postponed Valuation Date and (ii) the Initial Stated Maturity Date. This Security shall not bear any interest.
Company
Initial Stated Maturity Date
Stated Maturity Date
Stated Maturity Date
Any payments on this Security at Maturity will be made against presentation of this Security at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose.
Determination of Maturity Payment Amount
"" shall mean, for each $1,000 Face Amount of this Security:
Maturity Payment Amount
 
 
 
 
"" shall mean, for each $1,000 Face Amount of this Security, an amount equal to the product of:
Additional Amount
 
"" is $375 per $1,000 Face Amount of this Security.
Capped Return Amount
The "" is 35.31, the Fund Closing Price on the date this Security was priced for initial sale to the public.
Initial Fund Level
The "" shall be equal to the Fund Closing Price of the Fund on the Valuation Date.
Final Fund Level
Set forth below are certain defined terms used in this Security in connection with the determination of the Maturity Payment Amount.
"" means, with respect to a share of the Fund, 1.0, subject to adjustment in the event of certain events affecting the shares of the Fund as described in "Anti-Dilution Adjustments; Discontinuance of the Fund; Alteration of Method of Calculation."
Adjustment Factor
"" shall mean a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York or Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Business Day
 
"" shall mean the Calculation Agency Agreement dated as of September 8, 2009 between the Company and the Calculation Agent, as amended from time to time.
Calculation Agency Agreement
"" shall mean the Person that has entered into the Calculation Agency Agreement with the Company providing for, among other things, the determination of the Final Fund Level, the Additional Amount, if any, and the Maturity Payment Amount, which term shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include its successors under such Calculation Agency Agreement. The initial Calculation Agent shall be Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. Pursuant to the Calculation Agency Agreement, the Company may appoint a different Calculation Agent from time to time after the initial issuance of the Securities of this series without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series and without notifying the Holders of the Securities of this series.
Calculation Agent
"" with respect to a share of the Fund (or one unit of any other security for which a closing price must be determined) on any Trading Day means:
Closing Price
 
 
 
If the shares of Fund (or any such other security) are listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange or are securities of The Nasdaq Stock Market but the last reported sale price or Nasdaq official closing price, as applicable, is not available pursuant to the preceding sentence, then the Closing Price for one share (or one unit of any such other security) on any Trading Day will mean the last reported sale price of the principal trading session on the over-the-counter market as reported on The Nasdaq Stock Market or the OTC Bulletin Board on such day. If, because of a Market Disruption Event or otherwise, the last reported sale price or Closing Price, as applicable, for the share (or any such other security) is not available pursuant to either of the two preceding sentences, then the Closing Price for any Trading Day will be the mean, as determined by the Calculation Agent, of the bid prices for the share (or any such other security) obtained from as many recognized dealers in such security, but not exceeding three, as will make such bid prices available to the Calculation Agent. Bids of affiliates of the Company may be included in the calculation of such mean, but only to the extent that any such bid is the highest of the bids obtained. The term "security of The Nasdaq Stock Market" will include a security
 
included in any successor to such system, and the term OTC Bulletin Board Service will include any successor service thereto as described in "Anti-Dilution Adjustments; Discontinuance of the Fund; Alteration of Method of Calculation."
"" shall mean, when used with respect to any Security or Securities of this series, the amount set forth on the face of such Security or Securities as its or their "Face Amount."
Face Amount
"" shall mean the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund.
Fund
"" with respect to the Fund (or any Successor Fund) on any Trading Day shall mean the product of (i) the Closing Price of one share of the Fund on such Trading Day and (ii) the Adjustment Factor applicable to the Fund on such Trading Day, as determined by the Calculation Agent as described in "Anti-Dilution Adjustments; Discontinuance of the Fund; Alteration Of Method Of Calculation.
Fund Closing Price
"" shall mean iShares, Inc.
Fund Sponsor
A "" with respect to the Fund will occur on any day if the Calculation Agent determines, in its sole discretion, any of the following:
Market Disruption Event
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred:
 
 
 
 
 
A "" means a day, as determined by the Calculation Agent, on which the New York Stock Exchange, The Nasdaq Stock Market, the American Stock Exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, the Chicago Board of Options Exchange, or any successor thereto, and the over-the-counter market for securities in the United States are open for trading during regular trading sessions.
Trading Day
"" shall mean the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
Underlying Index
 
The "" shall be the last Trading Day of August 2011. If the Calculation Agent determines that a Market Disruption Event has occurred or is continuing on the scheduled Valuation Date, the Valuation Date will be postponed to the first succeeding Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event. If the Valuation Date has been postponed for eight Business Days after the scheduled Valuation Date and such eighth Business Day is not a Trading Day, or if a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on such eighth Business Day, the Calculation Agent will determine the Fund Closing Price of the Fund on such eighth Business Day in accordance with the formula for and method of calculating the Fund Closing Price of the Fund last in effect prior to commencement of such Market Disruption Event using its good faith estimate of the Fund Closing Price that would have prevailed but for such Market Disruption Event or non-Trading Day. Any such postponement of the date that would otherwise be the scheduled Valuation Date will cause the Stated Maturity Date to be postponed until three Business Days after the Valuation Date if such third Business Day is after the Initial Stated Maturity Date.
Valuation Date
Anti-Dilution Adjustments; Discontinuance Of The Fund; Alteration Of Method Of Calculation
If the shares of the Fund are subject to a stock split or reverse stock split, then once such split has become effective, the Adjustment Factor with respect to such shares will be adjusted to equal the product of the prior Adjustment Factor for such shares and the number of shares issued in such stock split or reverse stock split with respect to one such share.
If the Fund is de-listed, liquidated or otherwise terminated (a ""), and a successor or substitute exchange traded fund exists that the Calculation Agent determines, in its sole discretion, to be comparable to the Fund, then any subsequent Fund Closing Price will be determined by reference to the Closing Price of the shares of such successor or substitute exchange traded fund (such exchange traded fund being referred to herein as a "").
Liquidation Event
Successor Fund
Upon any selection by the Calculation Agent of a Successor Fund, the Calculation Agent will give notice to the Holders of the Securities of this series.
If the Fund undergoes a Liquidation Event prior to, and such Liquidation Event is continuing on, the date that the Fund Closing Price is to be determined and the Calculation Agent determines that no Successor Fund is available at such time, then the Calculation Agent will, in its discretion, calculate the Fund Closing Price on such date by a computation methodology that the Calculation Agent determines will as closely as reasonably possible replicate the Fund.
If a Successor Fund is selected or the Calculation Agent calculates the Fund Closing Price as a substitute for the Fund, such Successor Fund or Fund Closing Price will be used as a substitute for the Fund for all purposes, including for purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event exists.
If at any time the method of calculating the Fund or a Successor Fund, or the Underlying Index, is changed in a material respect, or if the Fund or a Successor Fund is in any other way modified so that such exchange traded fund does not, in the opinion of the Calculation Agent fairly represent the price of the shares of the Fund or such Successor Fund had such changes or
 
modifications not been made, then the Calculation Agent will, at the close of business in New York City on the date that the Fund Closing Price is to be determined, make such calculations and adjustments as, in the good faith judgment of the Calculation Agent, may be necessary in order to arrive at a price of an exchange traded fund comparable to the Fund or such Successor Fund, as the case may be, as if such changes or modifications had not been made, and calculate the Fund Closing Price with reference to the Fund or such Successor Fund, as adjusted.
Calculation Agent
The Calculation Agent will determine the Maturity Payment Amount. In addition, the Calculation Agent will (i) determine if adjustments are required to the Fund Closing Price under the circumstances described in this Security, (ii) if the Fund undergoes a Liquidation Event, select a successor fund or, if no successor fund is available, determine the Fund Closing Price under the circumstances described in this Security and (iii) determine whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred.
The Company covenants that, so long as any of the Securities of this series are Outstanding, there shall at all times be a Calculation Agent (which shall be a broker-dealer, bank or other financial institution) with respect to the Securities of this series.
All determinations made by the Calculation Agent with respect to the Securities of this series will be at the sole discretion of the Calculation Agent and, in the absence of manifest error, will be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Company and the Holders of the Securities of this series. All percentages and other amounts resulting from any calculation with respect to the Securities of this series will be rounded at the Calculation Agent's discretion.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature or its duly authorized agent under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
DATED:
                        
 
[SEAL]
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of July 21, 1999, as amended or supplemented from time to time (herein called the ""), between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate Face Amount to $            ; , that the Company may, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series, issue additional Securities with the same terms as the Securities of this series, and such additional Securities shall be considered part of the same series under the Indenture as the Securities of this series.
Indenture
Trustee
provided, however
The Securities of this series are not subject to redemption at the option of the Company or repayment at the option of the Holder hereof prior to September 8, 2011. The Securities will not be entitled to any sinking fund.
The Company agrees, to the extent permitted by law, not to voluntarily claim the benefits of any laws concerning usurious rates of interest against a Holder of Securities of this series.
If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the Maturity Payment Amount (calculated as set forth in the next sentence) of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The amount payable to the Holder hereof upon any acceleration permitted under the Indenture will be equal to the Maturity Payment Amount hereof calculated as though the date of acceleration was the Valuation Date; provided, however, if such date is not a Trading Day or if a Market Disruption Event has occurred or is continuing on that day, the next Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event will be deemed to be the Valuation Date. Upon payment of the amount so declared due and payable, all of the Company's obligations in respect of payment of the Maturity Payment Amount shall terminate. The Securities of this series will not bear a default rate of interest after the occurrence of an Event of Default or an acceleration under the Indenture.
The Company agrees, and by acceptance of a beneficial ownership interest in this Security each beneficial owner of this Security will be deemed to have agreed (in the absence of a statutory,
 
regulatory, administrative of judicial ruling to the contrary), for United States federal income tax purposes to characterize and treat this Security as a pre-paid derivative contract in respect of the Fund.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected, acting together. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time Outstanding affected by certain provisions of the Indenture, acting together, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with those provisions of the Indenture. Certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences may be waived under the Indenture by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series. Solely for the purpose of determining whether any consent, waiver, notice or other action or Act to be taken or given by the Holders of Securities pursuant to the Indenture has been given or taken by the Holders of Outstanding Securities in the requisite aggregate principal amount, the principal amount of this Security will be deemed to be equal to the amount set forth on the face hereof as the "Face Amount" hereof. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Section 403 and Article Fifteen of the Indenture and the provisions of clause (ii) of Section 401(1)(B) of the Indenture, relating to defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, shall not apply to this Security. The remaining provisions of Section 401 of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
Article Sixteen of the Indenture shall not apply to this Security.
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Security at the office or agency of the Company in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota, a new Security or Securities of this series in authorized denominations for an equal aggregate Face Amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange herefor, as provided in the Indenture and subject to the limitations provided therein and to the limitations described below, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
This Security is exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form only if (x) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Security or if at any time the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and a successor depositary is not appointed within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form and notifies the Trustee thereof or (z) an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing. If this Security is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence, it shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form, having the same terms and of authorized denominations aggregating a like amount.
 
This Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor of the Depositary or a nominee of such successor. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders hereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the Maturity Payment Amount at the times and place, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed, except as otherwise provided in this Security.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the Maturity Payment Amount, or for any claim based on this Security, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise defined in this Security.
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the within Security of WELLS FARGO & COMPANY and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint                                  attorney to transfer the said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
Dated:
                        
 
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 

Exhibit 5.1
Wells Fargo & Company
420 Montgomery Street
San Francisco, California 94163
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am Senior Company Counsel of Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") and, as such, I, together with other attorneys in the Wells Fargo Law Department, have acted as counsel for the Company in connection with the preparation of a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the "Registration Statement") of the Company and Wells Fargo Capital XVI, Wells Fargo Capital XVII, Wells Fargo Capital XVIII, Wells Fargo Capital XIX, and Wells Fargo Capital XX filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), relating to the proposed offer and sale from time to time of the securities referred to therein, and a Prospectus Supplement dated August 31, 2009 to the Prospectus dated June 4, 2009 (together, the "Prospectus") relating to the offer and sale by the Company under the Registration Statement of $5,993,000 aggregate face amount of Notes Linked to the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund due September 8, 2011 (the "Notes"). The Notes are to be issued under the Indenture dated as of July 21, 1999 (the "Indenture") entered into by the Company and Citibank, N.A., as trustee, and sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement dated August 31, 2009 between the Company and the Underwriter named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement").
I, or attorneys in the Wells Fargo Law Department under my direction, have examined such documents, records, and instruments as I have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion.
Based on the foregoing, I am of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized and, when duly executed by the Company, authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms subject, as to their legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and subject to general equity principles (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and except further as enforcement thereof may be limited by any governmental authority that limits, delays or prohibits the making of payments outside the United States.
Wells Fargo & Company
September 8, 2009
Page 2
 
I have relied as to certain relevant facts upon certificates of, and/or information provided by officers and employees of the Company as to the accuracy of such factual matters without independent verification thereof or other investigation. I have also relied, without investigation, upon the following assumptions: (i) natural persons acting on behalf of the Company have sufficient legal capacity to enter into and perform, on behalf of the Company, the transaction in question; (ii) each party to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company has satisfied those legal requirements that are applicable to it to the extent necessary to make such agreements or instruments enforceable against it; (iii) each party to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company has complied with all legal requirements pertaining to its status as such status relates to its rights to enforce such agreements or instruments against the Company; (iv) each document submitted to me for review is accurate and complete, each such document that is an original is authentic, each such document that is a copy conforms to an authentic original, and all signatures on each such document are genuine; (v) there has not been any mutual mistake of fact or misunderstanding, fraud, duress or undue influence; and (vi) all statutes, judicial and administrative decisions, and rules and regulations of governmental agencies, constituting the law of the opining jurisdictions, are publicly available to lawyers practicing in Minnesota.
Without limiting any other qualifications set forth herein, the opinions expressed herein regarding the enforceability of the Notes are subject to the effect of generally applicable laws that (i) provide for the enforcement of oral waivers or modifications where a material change of position in reliance thereon has occurred or provide that a course of performance may operate as a waiver, (ii) limit the availability of a remedy under certain circumstances where another remedy has been elected, (iii) may, where less than all of a contract may be unenforceable, limit the enforceability of the balance of the contract to circumstances in which the unenforceable portion is not an essential part of the agreed exchange, (iv) govern and afford judicial discretion regarding the determination of damages and entitlement to attorneys' fees and other costs, (v) may permit a party who has materially failed to render or offer performance required by a contract to cure that failure unless either permitting a cure would unreasonably hinder the aggrieved party from making substitute arrangements for performance or it is important under the circumstances to the aggrieved party that performance occur by the date stated in the contract, (vi) may require mitigation of damages, (vii) may limit the enforceability of provisions imposing increased interest rates or late payment charges upon delinquency in payment or default or providing for liquidated damages or for premiums upon acceleration and (ix) limit the waiver of rights under usury laws.
I express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of Minnesota, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and the federal laws of the United States of America. I express no opinion as to whether, or the extent to which, the laws of any particular jurisdiction apply to the subject matter hereof, including, without limitation, the enforceability of the governing law provision contained in the Notes. Because the governing law provision of the Notes relates to the law of a jurisdiction as to which I express no opinion, the opinion regarding enforceability of the Notes set forth herein is given as if the law of the State of Minnesota governs the Notes.
Wells Fargo & Company
September 8, 2009
Page 3
 
I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed with the Commission and thereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. In giving such consent, I do not thereby admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 

Exhibit 5.2
September 8, 2009
Wells Fargo & Company,
420 Montgomery Street,
San Francisco, California 94163.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
600 California Street, Suite 1600
San Francisco, California 94108.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to Wells Fargo & Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the issuance of $5,993,000 aggregate face amount of Notes Linked to the iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index Fund due September 8, 2011 (the "Securities") as described in the Company's prospectus supplement dated August 31, 2009 to the Company's prospectus dated June 4, 2009 (the "Prospectus Supplement"). We hereby confirm our opinion as set forth under the heading "Supplemental U.S. Income Tax Considerations" in the Prospectus Supplement.
We hereby consent to the reference to us in the Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Supplemental U.S. Income Tax Considerations" and the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Prospectus Supplement. In giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 


