FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20090806090445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.
Compensation Determinations for Certain Senior Executive Officers
On August 3, 2009, the Board of Directors of Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") and its Human Resources Committee (the "Committee") increased the 2009 annual base salary for John G. Stumpf, President and Chief Executive Officer, to $5,600,000 from $900,000, for Howard I. Atkins, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to $3,339,156 from $700,000, for David A. Hoyt, Senior Executive Vice President and head of Wholesale Banking, to $3,866,667 from $700,000, and for Mark C. Oman, Senior Executive Vice President and head of Home and Consumer Finance, to $3,866,667 from $600,000. The Committee also determined that 83.93%, 79.04%, 81.90% and 84.48%, respectively, of each year's base salary for Messrs. Stumpf, Atkins, Hoyt and Oman, net of tax withholdings and deductions, will be paid in Company common stock granted under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan, resulting in the net annual base salary increase for each executive being paid in stock. The number of shares of Company common stock granted as of each payroll period end date will be determined by dividing the amount of base salary payable in stock by the NYSE-only closing price on the grant date or, if the NYSE is closed on the grant date, by the NYSE-only closing price on the immediately preceding date on which the NYSE is open. Messrs. Stumpf, Atkins, Oman and Hoyt may not sell or otherwise transfer the stock they receive in payment of base salary until the Company repays the U.S. Treasury Department's Capital Purchase Program ("CPP") investment in the Company, except upon their death or permanent disability. The Committee may, in its sole discretion and without the executive's consent, at any time, terminate, suspend or modify the award agreement. For more information about the grant terms, refer to the Stock Award Agreements for each of Messrs. Stumpf, Atkins, Hoyt and Oman filed as Exhibits 10(a), 10(b), 10(c) and 10(d), respectively, to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Also on August 3, 2009, the Committee granted to Mr. Stumpf 108,528 long-term restricted share rights ("RSRs") with an aggregate award value of $2,800,000 based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of grant. Each RSR entitles Mr. Stumpf to receive one share of Company common stock contingent upon vesting. The RSRs will vest in two installments: two-thirds on August 3, 2011 and the remaining one-third on August 3, 2012, subject to prior repayment by the Company of CPP funds. Mr. Stumpf will forfeit the RSRs if he terminates his employment with the Company before August 3, 2011, other than because of his death or permanent disability. The Committee required as a condition to receiving the award, that Mr. Stumpf agree to hold, while employed by the Company and for at least one year after retirement, shares of Company common stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting of the RSRs. The Committee may reduce, delay vesting, revoke, cancel or impose additional conditions and restrictions on the award if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable to comply with applicable law or regulation. The RSRs include the right to receive dividend equivalents to be reinvested in Company common stock in the form of additional RSRs. The additional RSRs will be distributed in shares of Company common stock when, and if, the underlying RSRs vest and are distributed. For more information about the grant terms, refer to the RSR Award Agreement for Mr. Stumpf filed as Exhibit 10(e) to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the press release announcing the Committee's compensation decisions described above is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Update Regarding Previously Announced Retirement of Executive Officer.
The Company previously disclosed under Item 5.02 of its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 26, 2008 that Mr. Oman had informed the Company that he would retire from the Company at the end of 2009. At the request of Mr. Stumpf, Mr. Oman has decided not to retire, and he will continue in his role as Senior Executive Vice President and head of Home and Consumer Finance.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10(a)
 
 
Your "Annual Base Salary" earned for 2009 and for any year thereafter shall be $5,600,000 unless otherwise determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company or the Committee in its discretion, and shall be paid in cash and Shares. A total of 83.93% of your Annual Base Salary, net of applicable tax withholdings and deductions, shall be paid to you in Shares ("Annual Stock Base Salary") pursuant to the terms of this Award Agreement. The amount of Annual Base Salary payable for each pay period ending on or after August 15, 2009 ("Net Pay Periods"), net of applicable tax withholdings and deductions, in accordance with established Company payroll procedures is referred to herein as your "Net Pay Period Base Salary."
 
 
If any fractional share results, the Share amount shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share with cash paid in lieu of the fractional share. The Shares granted will be issued on the Grant Date or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable in accordance with established payroll procedures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has awarded you the Stock Awards in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, you hereby agree to the foregoing terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.
 

Exhibit 10(b)
 
 
Your "Annual Base Salary" earned for 2009 and for any year thereafter shall be $3,339,156 unless otherwise determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company or the Committee in its discretion, and shall be paid in cash and Shares. A total of 79.04% of your Annual Base Salary, net of applicable tax withholdings and deductions, shall be paid to you in Shares ("Annual Stock Base Salary") pursuant to the terms of this Award Agreement. The amount of Annual Base Salary payable for each pay period ending on or after August 15, 2009 ("Net Pay Periods"), net of applicable tax withholdings and deductions, in accordance with established Company payroll procedures is referred to herein as your "Net Pay Period Base Salary."
 
 
If any fractional share results, the Share amount shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share with cash paid in lieu of the fractional share. The Shares granted will be issued on the Grant Date or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable in accordance with established payroll procedures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has awarded you the Stock Awards in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, you hereby agree to the foregoing terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.
 

Exhibit 10(c)
 
 
Your "Annual Base Salary" earned for 2009 and for any year thereafter shall be $3,866,667 unless otherwise determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company or the Committee in its discretion, and shall be paid in cash and Shares. A total of 81.90% of your Annual Base Salary, net of applicable tax withholdings and deductions, shall be paid to you in Shares ("Annual Stock Base Salary") pursuant to the terms of this Award Agreement. The amount of Annual Base Salary payable for each pay period ending on or after August 15, 2009 ("Net Pay Periods"), net of applicable tax withholdings and deductions, in accordance with established Company payroll procedures is referred to herein as your "Net Pay Period Base Salary."
 
 
If any fractional share results, the Share amount shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share with cash paid in lieu of the fractional share. The Shares granted will be issued on the Grant Date or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable in accordance with established payroll procedures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has awarded you the Stock Awards in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, you hereby agree to the foregoing terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.
 

Exhibit 10(d)
 
 
Your "Annual Base Salary" earned for 2009 and for any year thereafter shall be $3,866,667 unless otherwise determined from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company or the Committee in its discretion, and shall be paid in cash and Shares. A total of 84.48% of your Annual Base Salary, net of applicable tax withholdings and deductions, shall be paid to you in Shares ("Annual Stock Base Salary") pursuant to the terms of this Award Agreement. The amount of Annual Base Salary payable for each pay period ending on or after August 15, 2009 ("Net Pay Periods"), net of applicable tax withholdings and deductions, in accordance with established Company payroll procedures is referred to herein as your "Net Pay Period Base Salary."
 
 
If any fractional share results, the Share amount shall be rounded down to the nearest whole share with cash paid in lieu of the fractional share. The Shares granted will be issued on the Grant Date or as soon thereafter as administratively practicable in accordance with established payroll procedures.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has awarded you the Stock Awards in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, you hereby agree to the foregoing terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.
 

Exhibit 10(e)
 
 
 
In accordance with the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended from time to time and implemented by regulation ("EESA"), and notwithstanding the schedule above or any other term of this Award Agreement, no Restricted Share Rights granted hereby shall vest earlier than the following schedule:
 
 
 
 
Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary determined in accordance with the Plan. Except for dividend equivalents as provided below, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your Restricted Share Rights until settlement. Upon vesting, Restricted Share Rights will be settled and distributed in shares of Common Stock except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has awarded you the Restricted Share Rights in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, you hereby agree to the foregoing terms and conditions of this Award.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SAN FRANCISCO, August 6, 2009  Wells Fargo & Company's (NYSE: WFC) Board of Directors approved increases in the 2009 annual base salaries of President and CEO John G. Stumpf and three other executive officers. These increases will result in total annual compensation close to the average pay for similar executive roles at peer group companies and are payable, after taxes and other withholding, entirely in Company stock which the executives cannot sell until Wells Fargo repays the U.S. Treasury's Capital Purchase Program (CPP) investment in the Company.
The cash salary for Stumpf will remain at $900,000 and he will receive an annual salary in stock of $4,700,000. Stumpf received a grant of 108,528 restricted share rights (RSRs), which will begin to vest in 2011, also subject to prior repayment of CPP funds by the Company. Upon vesting, each RSR will entitle him to one share of stock. The Board also approved increases in 2009 annual salaries in stock for:
 
 
 
 
The Board took these actions after considering recent U.S. Treasury guidance; the developing pay practices at Wells Fargo's peers (10 large publicly traded financial services companies); the Company's consistent ability to grow revenue, market share, net income and profitability over the short and long term; and the need for these executives' continued leadership while integrating Wachovia into Wells Fargo and directing the Company through the economic recession and beyond.
"We believe Wells Fargo's leadership team is the finest in financial services," said Steve Sanger, Chair of the Human Resources Committee (HRC) of Wells Fargo's Board and retired chairman and CEO of General Mills, Inc. "They're leading the Company through the largest merger integration in U.S. banking history, and earned record profits in the first two quarters of 2009, despite the challenging economy. This is something no other financial company is achieving and few, if any, companies in any industry are achieving. Wells Fargo's compensation philosophy has always been to pay competitively, to reward performance relative to its peer group and to align management's interests with those of our shareholders. We must balance the need to appropriately pay and retain our top performing team members with the responsibility we have as a recipient of an investment from the U.S. Treasury on behalf of U.S. taxpayers. We believe that these increases in compensation adhere to both the letter and spirit of the new executive compensation rules that apply to companies that received a U.S. Treasury investment."
The Board's actions will set the total compensation for these executives close to the average pay for similar executives at Wells Fargo's peers, even though the Company's growth in revenue, market share, net income and profitability have been consistently at or near the top of its peer group. In February 2009, the HRC did not award stock options to any executive named in Wells Fargo's proxy statement because of restrictions on such awards for the Company as a recipient of a CPP investment, and did not take any compensation actions for Stumpf in anticipation of rules governing executive compensation from the U.S. Treasury.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $1.3 trillion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through more than 10,000 stores and 12,000 ATMs and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally.


