FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20090422080120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 22, 2009, Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and posted on its website certain slides regarding first quarter 2009 credit performance of specific loan portfolios. The press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report, and is considered to be "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The credit performance slides are furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report, and shall not be considered "filed" under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company will include complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, as part of its Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) reported diluted earnings per common share of $0.56 for first quarter 2009. Wells Fargo net income was a record $3.05 billion. "The best way to generate capital is to earn it," said President and CEO John Stumpf. "This has long been the hallmark of our company and we're now seeing the initial signs of the earnings and capital-generating power of the combined Wells Fargo-Wachovia in our first quarter together, serving one of every three U.S. households. We're also seeing the benefits of our actions to reduce the risk in the Wachovia portfolio at the close of the merger through write-downs and credit reserve builds. Our talented team has built solid momentum for 2009. We are open for business and we're gaining wallet share and market share, as we've always done in economically challenging times, because we make fewer mistakes than our competitors in the so-called good times' and have fewer problems to fix. The last six months we've extended more than $225 billion in credit to U.S. taxpayers, nine times the amount U.S. taxpayers invested in our company through the U.S. Treasury. We now service one of every six mortgages in the U.S., up from one in eight last year. This quarter, Wells Fargo helped almost a half million U.S. homeowners buy a home or lower their monthly payments through refinancing  an 84 percent increase in homeowners we helped compared with the previous quarter. We also delivered 158,000 solutions to homeowners to help them remain in their homes. The integration of Wachovia into Wells Fargo is on track and we expect to begin, as scheduled, the first phase of state-by-state banking conversions later this year."
Financial Performance
"First quarter results, including a record pre-tax pre-provision profit of $9.2 billion, were largely driven by growth in many of our diversified businesses and the new contribution to growth now coming from Wachovia. Results also reflected lower net charge-offs partly because Wachovia's higher-risk loan portfolios already were written down at December 31, 2008, leaving the remainder of Wachovia's loan portfolios with naturally lower loss content," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "Our net interest margin of 4.16 percent was the highest among our large bank peers. We again had above-peer growth in deposits. Average consumer checking accounts rose a net 6.8 percent at legacy Wells Fargo year over year. Checking and savings deposits were up 31 percent on an annualized linked-quarter basis. Actions we took over the past two years to shrink or exit certain indirect lending businesses and more recently to write down higher-risk loan and securities portfolios have significantly reduced asset risk and should continue to help moderate credit losses if the economy continues to deteriorate."
Revenue
Revenue of $21.0 billion included another quarter of record, double-digit revenue growth at legacy Wells Fargo, up 16 percent year over year, as well as a strong contribution from Wachovia, which generated 41 percent of the Company's combined revenue. "This quarter's revenue growth reflected the traditional revenue-generating capacity of Wells Fargo's diversified business model, which has produced revenue growth in all economic environments," said Atkins. "As we've said before, money never declines. It just moves due to economic cycles and our customers' life cycles. Our diversified portfolio of businesses and
 
cross-selling prowess allow us to satisfy our customers' financial needs throughout these cycles. Wells Fargo has had double-digit revenue growth in eight of the past 12 quarters. As demonstrated this quarter, the Wachovia merger brings even greater scope and diversification to our revenue growth by applying the Wells Fargo revenue engine to almost twice as many customers, extending our Community Banking network across the United States, while expanding our capabilities in businesses such as retail brokerage, wealth management, asset management and customer-centric investment banking for corporate and commercial relationships."
Revenue
 
Net Interest Income
Net interest income of $11.4 billion reflected a strong combined net interest margin on average earning assets of $1.1 trillion. "At 4.16 percent, the net interest margin of the combined Company remained the best among our large bank peers, in part due to continued growth in core deposits, deposit pricing discipline and an increase in the mortgage warehouse due to higher originations," said Atkins. Legacy Wells Fargo net interest income of $6.8 billion rose $1.1 billion, or 18 percent, from a year ago largely reflecting growth in loans and other earning assets.
Loans
Total loans were $843.6 billion at March 31, 2009, compared with $864.8 billion at December 31, 2008. "Total loans included $119.4 billion of consumer loans at quarter end, and $123.8 billion at year end, in portfolios that the Company exited or will continue to run-off, such as indirect auto and indirect home equity at legacy Wells Fargo, and the Wachovia Pick-a-Pay portfolio," said Atkins. Apart from these liquidating portfolios, total loans were down $16.8 billion, largely the result of seasonality, reduced consumer spending, attrition in the mortgage and home equity portfolios as customers take advantage of
 
low first mortgage rates, movement into the commercial paper and bond markets, and efforts by some commercial borrowers to de-leverage their businesses. However, the attrition in mortgages held for investment was more than offset by an increase in our mortgage loans held for sale resulting from our strong originations this quarter.
Deposits
Total core deposits were $756.2 billion at March 31, 2009, up $10.8 billion from December 31, 2008. $33.6 billion of high-rate CDs at legacy Wachovia matured in the quarter, including $13.2 billion from CD-only households. "Higher-rate CDs are rolling off and we are successfully retaining many of these deposits at today's lower rates," said Atkins. The combination of noninterest-bearing and interest-bearing transaction and savings deposits increased 31 percent (annualized) to $570.7 billion at March 31, 2009, from $529.9 billion at December 31, 2008. Mortgage escrow deposits were $26.0 billion at March 31, 2009, compared with $16.5 billion at year end. Average consumer checking accounts at legacy Wells Fargo grew a net 6.8 percent from first quarter 2008. "Deposit performance continued to benefit from deeper market penetration, flight to quality and mortgage escrow activity," said Atkins.
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income reached $9.6 billion, driven by continued success in satisfying customers' financial needs and the combined Company's expanded breadth of products and services. Noninterest income included:
 
The net unrealized loss on securities available for sale declined to $4.7 billion at March 31, 2009, from $9.9 billion at December 31, 2008. Approximately $850 million of the improvement was due to declining interest rates and narrower credit spreads. The remainder was due to the early adoption of FAS FSP 157-4, which clarified the use of trading prices in determining fair value for distressed securities in illiquid markets, thus moderating the need to use excessively distressed prices in valuing these securities in illiquid markets as we had done in prior periods.
Noninterest Expense
Noninterest expense was $11.8 billion reflecting the expanded geographic platform and capabilities in businesses such as retail brokerage, asset management and investment banking, which, like mortgage banking, typically include higher revenue-based incentive expense than the more traditional banking businesses. FDIC and other deposit assessments totaled $338 million compared with $8 million in first quarter 2008 for legacy Wells Fargo. Noninterest expense included $122 million of additional insurance reserve at the Company's captive mortgage reinsurance operation and $206 million of merger-related costs. "We still expect to generate $5 billion of annual merger-related expense savings, which will begin to emerge in the second quarter and are expected to be fully realized upon completion of the integration," said Atkins. "After refining our initial models, we now expect total integration expense to be less than $7.9 billion and to be spread over the integration period rather than all by year-end 2009. We also expect recently announced efficiency initiatives to lower expenses over the remainder of 2009." The efficiency ratio was 56 percent.
 
Credit Quality
SOP 03-3 Purchase Accounting Update
1
Wells Fargo's reported first quarter 2009 credit quality metrics were affected by the Wachovia merger and particularly by the purchase accounting adjustments recorded when the merger was completed on December 31, 2008. "At that time, we evaluated Wachovia's higher-risk loan portfolios to identify loans with evidence of credit deterioration and provide an estimate of loss potential," said Chief Credit Officer Mike Loughlin. "These loss estimates were then used to assess the value of the loan portfolio as part of the purchase accounting process and certain loans were written down for the expected life-of-loan losses inherent in the portfolios. As expected, these estimates were updated during the first quarter to reflect additional available data relating to the Wachovia portfolio as of year end." A total of $40 billion of credit write-downs have already been taken through purchase accounting adjustments. We have now evaluated Wachovia's high-risk loan portfolios multiple times since the merger was announced and loss estimates remain within our initial expectations. As a result of having already written down Wachovia's higher-risk portfolios for their expected losses, the remaining portfolio will have lower
loss rates because of its reduced loss content. As a result, Wachovia's total net charge-offs in first quarter were only $371 million. While the remaining Wachovia portfolios have significantly lower probability of default than the portfolio that has already been written down, losses in the remaining lower-risk portfolios are likely to grow as the defaults in these lower-risk portfolios actually occur. Since the allowance covers all consumer losses for the next 12 months as well as any commercial losses for at least 24 months, the potential losses in Wachovia's lower-risk portfolio, as well as any increase for the legacy Wells Fargo loan portfolio, are reflected in the $23 billion allowance for credit losses, including the $1.3 billion credit reserve build this quarter.
"Purchase accounting also significantly reduced Wachovia's nonaccrual loans at year end since we believe the remaining balance of these loans after write-down is fully collectible. As a result, despite the fact that the remaining Wachovia portfolio has relatively lower risk, even modest increases in new nonaccrual loans will appear as higher percentage increases from this low base until the remaining portfolios season."
 
 
Net Loan Charge-Offs
First quarter net charge-offs for the combined Company were $3.3 billion, or 1.54 percent of average loans, including $371 million in the Wachovia portfolio. Legacy Wells Fargo charge-offs were $2.9 billion compared with $2.8 billion in fourth quarter 2008. Commercial and commercial real estate losses remained at relatively low levels reflecting the historically disciplined underwriting standards applied by Wells Fargo and the customer-relationship focus in this portfolio. Losses in residential real estate and credit cards rose modestly in the quarter, in line with expectations, while other credit losses, principally indirect auto, declined due to seasonality and our risk reduction actions in indirect auto over the last two years.
"As long as the U.S. economy remains weak, losses on the combined portfolio will increase," said Loughlin. "Over the last two years, we have taken and will continue to take actions to enable the Company to navigate through this down cycle. In addition to the significant write-downs taken to reduce risk in the Wachovia portfolio at close, we ceased originations in and are liquidating certain higher-risk, lower-return portfolios, such as Pick-a-Pay and legacy Wells Fargo indirect auto and liquidating broker-originated home equity portfolios. In addition, during the first quarter, we successfully incorporated Wells Fargo's risk policies and procedures into Wachovia, which is essential to our ability to properly manage risk. We believe these risk reduction actions better position us for the expected continued credit deterioration and economic headwinds."
 
Net charge-offs in the 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio totaled $391 million. These results included $310 million from legacy Wells Fargo, which increased $117 million linked quarter. "Our relatively high-quality 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio continued to reflect relatively low loss rates although, until housing prices fully stabilize, these credit results will continue to deteriorate," said Loughlin. Credit card charge-offs increased $131 million linked quarter to $582 million, including $48 million relating to the $2.4 billion Wachovia portfolio. "We continued to see increases in delinquency and loss levels in the consumer unsecured loan portfolios as a result of higher unemployment." Losses in the auto portfolio decreased $47 million from fourth quarter 2008 reflecting improvements from seasonality and portfolio balance reduction over the past several quarters.
Net charge-offs in the real estate 1-4 family junior lien portfolio of $847 million included $801 million in the legacy Wells Fargo portfolio, which increased $99 million from fourth quarter 2008 as residential real estate values continued to be depressed. "These results aren't solely because of declining home values," said Loughlin. "As more customers seek to modify their first mortgages, there may be an adverse effect on the credit performance of junior lien holders behind these modifications." More information about the Home Equity portfolio is available on page 34.
Commercial and commercial real estate net charge-offs of $697 million included $667 million from the legacy Wells Fargo portfolio, down $175 million from $842 million in fourth quarter 2008, which included $294 million related to the customers of the Madoff investment firm. The linked-quarter trends also reflected a $100 million increase in losses in our Business Direct portfolio while other commercial losses declined and remained at relatively low levels. "Wholesale credit results continued to deteriorate," said Loughlin. "Commercial lending requests slowed during the quarter as borrowers reduced their receivable and inventory levels to conserve cash."
 
Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets
 
Total nonperforming assets were $12.6 billion (1.50 percent of total loans) at March 31, 2009, and included $10.5 billion of nonperforming loans and $2.1 billion of foreclosed assets and repossessed real estate and vehicles. Nonperforming loans increased $3.7 billion, or 44 basis points as a percentage of loan balances, from December 31, 2008, with increases in both the commercial and retail segments. The increase included $1.5 billion relating to Wachovia, which grew from a relatively low $97 million at year end as virtually all of the associated nonaccrual loans were no longer considered nonaccrual after applying required purchase accounting. The vast majority of nonperforming loans are secured. The increases in nonperforming loans were concentrated in portfolios secured by residential real estate or with borrowers dependent on the housing industry.
"We expect nonperforming asset balances to continue to grow, reflecting an environment where retaining these assets is the most viable economic option, as well as our efforts to modify more mortgage loans to reduce foreclosures and keep customers in their homes," said Loughlin. "We remain focused on proactively identifying problem credits, moving them to nonperforming status and recording the loss content in a timely manner. We've increased and will continue to increase staffing in our workout and collection organizations to ensure these troubled borrowers receive the attention and help they need."
 
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing totaled $15.1 billion, $12.7 billion, and $6.9 billion at March 31, 2009, December 31, 2008, and March 31, 2008, respectively. For the same periods, the totals included $9.5 billion, $8.2 billion and $5.3 billion, respectively, in advances pursuant to the Company's servicing agreement to GNMA mortgage pools and similar loans whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veteran Affairs.
Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing
(Excluding Insured/Guaranteed GNMA and Similar Loans)
Includes Wells Fargo and Wachovia
 
Allowance for Credit Losses
1
(Includes Wells Fargo and, beginning December 31, 2008, Wachovia)
The allowance for credit losses, including the reserve for unfunded commitments, totaled $22.8 billion at March 31, 2009, compared with $21.7 billion at December 31, 2008. First quarter 2009 results included a credit reserve build of $1.3 billion, primarily for higher projected losses in several consumer credit portfolios, increased levels of residential real estate modifications classified as troubled debt restructurings and expected deterioration in the wholesale portfolios and commercial non-SOP 03-3 impaired loans. The allowance coverage to total loans increased to 2.71 percent, or 2.91 percent of loans excluding SOP 03-3 impaired loans, compared with 2.51 percent at December 31, 2008, and covered expected consumer losses for at least the next 12 months and provided approximately 24 months of anticipated commercial loss coverage. "We believe the allowance was adequate for expected losses inherent in the loan portfolio at March 31, 2009, including both performing and nonperforming loans," said Loughlin.
 
 
Capital
Capital ratios increased during the quarter. Tier 1 capital was 8.28 percent. The TCE ratio increased to 3.28 percent of tangible assets, up from 2.86 percent at December 31, 2008. See page 24 for the TCE calculation. TCE to estimated risk-weighted assets rose to 3.83 percent at March 31, 2009.
"We have built reserves for six consecutive quarters, dating back to fourth quarter 2007 when credit deterioration became evident," said Atkins. "These reserve builds have strengthened the balance sheet and position us for the future. We view a considerable portion of the $23 billion allowance to be essentially like capital since we won't draw on this reserve until the credit crisis ends and loan losses decline. Current accounting policies will then require us to reduce the allowance, increasing profit and increasing capital ratios at that time."
Business Segment Performance
Wells Fargo defines its operating segments by product type and customer segment. As a result of the combination of Wells Fargo and Wachovia, management realigned its business segments into the following three lines of business: Community Banking; Wholesale Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement Services. The Company revised prior period segment information to reflect this realignment; however, segment information for periods prior to first quarter 2009 does not include Wachovia. Segment net income for each of the three business segments was:
More financial information about the business segments is on page 29.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C.
Selected Financial Information
Community Banking reported net income of $1.8 billion and pre-tax pre-provision income of $6.8 billion. First quarter results reflected the benefit of the expanded geographic presence and were driven by
 
strength in mortgage banking and record sales in regional banking, partially offset by higher FDIC and other deposit assessments, credit reserve build and net loan charge-offs.
Regional Banking Highlights for Legacy Wells Fargo
Regional Banking Highlights for Wachovia
Combined Regional Banking Distribution Metrics
Online Banking
 
Home Mortgage
Wells Fargo Financial
Wholesale Banking
provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of $10 million and financial institutions globally. Products include middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, correspondent banking, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, corporate trust, investment banking, capital markets, and asset management.
Selected Financial Information
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $1.2 billion and pre-tax pre-provision profit of $2.4 billion. First quarter results were driven by the performance of our diverse businesses, such as commercial
 
banking, corporate banking, asset-based lending, international financial services and capital markets and benefitted from an increased level of trading revenue in the quarter.
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement Services Group
provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients using a comprehensive planning approach to meet each client's needs. The Wealth Management Group provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions including financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Family Office Services meets the unique needs of the ultra high net worth customers. Retail brokerage's financial advisors serve customers' advisory, brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the U.S. The Retirement Group provides retirement services for individual investors and is a national leader in
401(k)
and pension record keeping.
Selected Financial Information
Retail Brokerage
Wealth Management Group
Retirement Services
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement Services reported net income of $259 million and pre-tax pre-provision profit of $420 million. First quarter earnings were driven by strong deposit growth in both the brokerage and wealth businesses. Asset-based revenues and brokerage commission income were reduced due to the weak market environment.
 
Recorded Message
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results is available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through April 25, 2009. Dial 866-416-0522 (domestic) or 706-902-3479 (international). No password is required. The call is also available online at .
wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/earnings
Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Information
In accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution you that this news release contains forward-looking statements about our future financial performance and business. We make forward-looking statements when we use words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "should," "may," "can," "will" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements in this news release include: we expect $5 billion of annual merger-related savings, which will begin emerging in second quarter 2009 and will be fully realized when the integration is completed; we expect recently announced efficiency initiatives to lower expenses over the remainder of 2009; we expect total integration expense to be less than $7.9 billion and to be spread over the integration period rather than all by year-end 2009; we expect the first phase of state-by-state banking conversions to begin later this year; we expect actions taken in the past two years to shrink or exit certain indirect lending businesses and more recently to write down higher-risk loan and securities portfolios should continue to help moderate credit losses; as a result of having written down Wachovia's higher-risk portfolios for their expected losses, we expect the remaining portfolio will have lower loss rates because of its reduced loss content; we expect losses in the remaining lower risk Wachovia portfolios are likely to grow as the defaults inherent in the portfolios actually occur; we believe the remaining balance of the Wachovia nonaccrual loans after year-end purchase accounting adjustments is fully collectible; as long as the U.S. economy remains weak, losses on the combined portfolio will increase; until housing prices fully stabilize, credit results in 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio will continue to deteriorate; we expect nonperforming balances to continue to grow; charge-offs on Wachovia loans accounted for under SOP 03-3 are not expected to reduce income in future periods to the extent the original estimates maintain their accuracy; we believe certain risk reduction actions better position us for the expected continued credit deterioration and economic headwinds; we expect deterioration in the wholesale credit portfolios; and we believe the allowance for credit losses was adequate for expected losses inherent in the loan portfolio at March 31, 2009.
Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements as actual results could differ significantly from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes or events that occur after that date. Several factors could cause actual results to differ significantly from expectations including: current economic and market conditions; our capital requirements and ability to raise capital on favorable terms; the terms of capital investments or other financial assistance provided by the U.S. government; legislative proposals to allow mortgage cram-downs in bankruptcy or force other loan modifications; our ability to successfully integrate the Wachovia merger and realize the expected cost savings and other benefits; our ability to realize the recently announced efficiency initiatives to lower expenses when and in the amount expected; the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses; recognition of other-than-temporary impairment on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio; the effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; hedging gains or losses; disruptions in the capital markets and reduced investor demand for mortgages loans; our ability to sell more products to our customers; the effect of the economic recession on the demand for our products and services; the effect of the fall in stock market prices on fee income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management businesses; our election to provide support to our mutual funds for structured credit products they may hold; changes in the value of our venture capital investments; changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards or in how accounting standards are to be applied; mergers and acquisitions; federal and state regulations; reputational damage from negative publicity, fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, the loss of checking and saving account deposits to other investments such as the stock market, and fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. There is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets and unemployment do not stabilize. Increases in loan charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses and related provision expense could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. For more information about factors that could cause actual
 
results to differ from our expectations, refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, including the discussion under "Risk Factors," as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. Any factor described above or in the 2008 Form 10-K could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition.
About Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $1.3 trillion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through more than 10,400 stores, over 12,000 ATMs and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA (
) (
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN TOTAL EQUITY (1)
 
TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY (1)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
 
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER NONPERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (1)(2)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS (1)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
LOANS SUBJECT TO SOP 03-3
Certain loans acquired from Wachovia have evidence of credit deterioration since origination and it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments (referred to as "credit impaired" loans). Such loans are accounted for under American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 03-3, (SOP 03-3). SOP 03-3 requires that acquired loans be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and prohibits carryover of the related allowance for loan losses. The difference between contractually required payments and cash flows expected to be collected is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. The difference between the cash flows expected to be collected and the fair value is referred to as the accretable yield.
Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer
Because SOP 03-3 loans have been written down in purchase accounting to an amount estimated to be collectible, such loans are not classified as nonaccrual even though they may be contractually past due. Also, losses on such loans are charged against the discount established in purchase accounting and, as such, are not reported as charge-offs.
As a result of the application of SOP 03-3 to credit-impaired Wachovia loans, certain ratios of the combined company cannot be used to compare a portfolio that includes acquired credit-impaired loans accounted for under SOP 03-3 against one that does not, or to compare ratios across quarters or years. The ratios particularly affected by the accounting under SOP 03-3 include the allowance for loan losses and allowance for credit losses as percentages of loans, of nonaccrual loans and of nonperforming assets; nonaccrual loans and nonperforming assets as a percentage of total loans; and net charge-offs as a percentage of loans.
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS (1)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
PICK-A-PAY PORTFOLIO(1)
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


