FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20090226214223.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 24, 2009, the Human Resources Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") suspended the Company's Performance-Based Compensation Policy effective January 1, 2009, and made the compensation determinations described below for the Company's chief executive officer, chief financial officer and three next most highly compensated executive officers (the "senior executive officers").
. The Company established the Performance-Based Compensation Policy (the "Policy") in 1994 so that cash incentive compensation paid to senior executive officers would satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code and be fully deductible by the Company for federal income tax purposes. Under Section 162(m), as in effect before enactment of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (as amended from time to time, "EESA") and the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP"), the Company could not deduct annual compensation in excess of $1 million paid to its senior executive officers unless the compensation was performance-based. EESA amended Section 162(m) for participants in TARP's Capital Purchase Program to reduce the annual compensation tax deductibility cap to $500,000 and eliminate the exception for performance-based compensation. The Committee determined that the Policy was not needed while the EESA limitations were in effect and suspended the Policy as permitted by its terms effective January 1, 2009.
Suspension of Performance-Based Compensation Policy
. The Company's senior executive officers are: John G. Stumpf (chief executive officer), Howard I. Atkins (chief financial officer), Richard M. Kovacevich, David A. Hoyt and Mark C. Oman. The Committee determined that because the Company had not met either of the alternative performance goals for 2008 under the Policy, none of the senior executive officers would receive cash incentive compensation for 2008. As permitted by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the Committee granted restricted share rights ("RSRs") to Howard I. Atkins, David A. Hoyt and Mark C. Oman valued at one-third of their 2008 total annual compensation, consisting of the value of the RSR award, 2008 base pay and the FAS 123R value of stock options granted in 2008. Information about the 2008 performance goals under the Policy and the Committee's evaluation of the Company's 2008 performance will be included in the Company's proxy statement for its 2009 annual meeting of stockholders. The Committee also increased the annual base salaries of Messrs. Atkins and Hoyt to $700,000 from $600,000 effective March 1, 2009.
Compensation Determinations for Senior Executive Officers
The following table shows the number of RSRs granted to Messrs. Atkins, Hoyt and Oman:
 
Each RSR entitles the holder to receive one share of Company common stock contingent upon vesting. The RSRs will vest in three installments: 30% on July 1, 2012, 30% on July 1, 2013 and 40% on July 1, 2014, provided that to the extent required by EESA, no installment will vest during the period in which any obligation arising from financial assistance provided to the Company under TARP remains outstanding. The Committee required that as a condition to
receiving the awards, the senior executive officers agree to hold, while employed by the Company and for at least one year after retirement, shares of Company common stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting of the RSRs. The Committee may reduce, delay vesting, revoke, cancel or impose additional conditions and restrictions on the awards if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable to comply with EESA or other applicable law or regulation. The RSRs include the right to receive dividend equivalents to be reinvested in Company common stock in the form of additional RSRs. The additional RSRs will be distributed in shares of Company common stock when, and if, the underlying RSRs vest and are distributed. For more information about the grant terms, refer to the form of Award Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(a) to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10(a)
 
 
 
 
If any applicable Restriction Period required under EESA has not terminated prior to the first or any subsequent vesting date specified above, each such vesting date above will be delayed until the date immediately following the expiration of the Restriction Period. If the Restriction Period does not lapse before all of the vesting dates indicated above, all of the Restricted Share Rights granted hereunder will vest in full on the date immediately following the expiration of the Restriction Period. Shares of Common Stock will be issued to you or, in case of your death, your Beneficiary determined in accordance with the Plan. Except for dividend equivalents as provided below, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to your Restricted Share Rights until settlement. Upon vesting, Restricted Share Rights will be settled and distributed in shares of Company common stock except as otherwise provided in the Plan or this Award Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the issuance of shares of Common Stock hereunder to ensure at the time of issuance there is a registration statement for the shares in effect under the Securities Act of 1933. The Committee may, in its sole discretion and without your consent, reduce, delay vesting, revoke, cancel or impose additional conditions and restrictions on this Award if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable to comply with EESA or other applicable law or regulation.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company has awarded you the Restricted Share Rights in accordance with the foregoing terms and conditions and in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. By signing below, you hereby agree to the foregoing terms and conditions of this Award.
 


