FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20090902153534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 28, 2008, Wells Fargo & Company ("Wells Fargo") received a notice (the "Notice") required by Section 101(i)(2)(E) of the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, regarding a blackout period under each of the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (the "Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan") and the Wachovia Savings Plan (the "Wachovia Savings Plan") (collectively, the "Plans"). The purpose of the blackout period for each of the Plans is to implement certain changes to the available investment fund options in anticipation of merging the Wachovia Savings Plan into the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan at year-end as a result of the merger of Wachovia Corporation with and into Wells Fargo on December 31, 2008.
The blackout period applicable to the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan is expected to begin at 3:00 p.m. Central Time on October 7, 2009 and end the week of October 12, 2009. The blackout period applicable to the Wachovia Savings Plan is expected to begin at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on October 6, 2009 and end the week of October 12, 2009. During the applicable blackout periods, participants in the Plans will be unable to access their Plan accounts, including being unable to direct or diversify investments, change contribution rates, or obtain loans or distributions. Notice of the applicable blackout period was sent to all participants and beneficiaries under each of the Plans on August 28, 2009. Copies of these blackout notices are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.
Because the Plans include Wells Fargo common stock funds as investment options, on September 2, 2009, in accordance with Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Rule 104 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation BTR, Wells Fargo sent a separate notice (the "Insider Notice") to its directors and executive officers informing them that during the blackout periods, they would generally be prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, selling, or otherwise acquiring or transferring, Wells Fargo common stock or any other equity security or derivative securities of Wells Fargo acquired in connection with their employment as an officer or service as a director. A copy of the Insider Notice is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
During the Blackout Period and for a period of two years after the end date thereof, a security holder or other interested person may obtain, without charge, information regarding the blackout periods, including the actual end dates of the blackout periods. This information is available by contacting Emily Janowsky at Wells Fargo & Company, Investor Relations, 420 Montgomery Street, MAC A0101-025, San Francisco, California 94104 or via telephone at 415-396-4496.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan Fund Changes
On October 7, 2009, we will begin to make changes to the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan's (the "Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan") investment lineup as the first step toward merging the Wachovia Savings Plan into the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan at year-end. Because the fund changes will take a period of time to process there will be a blackout period beginning at 3:00 p.m. Central Time on Wednesday, October 7, 2009, with the blackout expected to end the week of October 12, 2009. This communication provides highlights of the fund changes and includes the legal notice for the blackout period.
During the blackout period, you will be temporarily unable to view your account or conduct any transactions, including directing or diversifying investments in your accounts, initiating and receiving a loan, requesting and receiving an in-service distribution (including hardship withdrawals) or obtaining a distribution from the plan. After the blackout period ends, you will be able to conduct transactions and make inquiries with respect to your accounts in the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan.
As previously communicated in the 401(k) Plan announcement on July 29
th
, which can be viewed on , your account balances and your investment elections for future contributions will be automatically transferred to the most similar investment fund in the new fund lineup, as indicated in the following chart. Current investment elections and fund balances in the "OLD" column will transfer, or "map," to the "NEW" investment choices and asset classes. This transfer of funds is commonly referred to as "fund mapping." Mapping is designed to transfer assets to a new fund that most closely matches the asset class of the existing fund. Before funds are transferred in October, you should carefully review the investment options. You may reallocate your balances at any time before the blackout period begins. It's a good idea for you to talk with a professional investment advisor about the best investments for your particular situation.
Teamworks
[FUND MAPPING CHART REDACTED]
Learn More
Detailed fund information, including detailed fund fact sheets and prospectuses for those investment options, will be available in mid-September 2009. You can access the 2009 Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan Summary Plan Description/Prospectus, Summary of Material Modifications and more information about the plan and your current investment options by going online:
 
 
Important Notice Concerning Your Rights Under the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan
This notice is to inform you that the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (the "Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan") will undergo the fund changes as shown in the fund mapping chart (see above) beginning October 7, 2009, and ending the week of October 12, 2009.
In order to complete the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan fund changes, you will not be able to make investment changes to your Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan account, obtain a loan, obtain an in-service withdrawal (including hardship withdrawals) or obtain a distribution from your Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan account for the period beginning at 3:00 p.m. Central Time on Wednesday, October 7, 2009, and ending the week of October 12, 2009. This period, during which you will be unable to exercise these rights otherwise available under the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan, is called a "blackout period."
As mentioned above, during the blackout period you will not be able to direct changes to or diversify the investments in your Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan accounts. For this reason, it is very important that you review and consider the appropriateness of your current investments in light of your inability to direct or diversify those investments during the blackout period. For your long-term retirement security, you should give careful consideration to the importance of a well-balanced and diversified investment portfolio, taking into account all your assets, income and investments. You should be aware that there is a risk to holding substantial portions of your assets in the securities of any one company, as individual securities tend to have wider price swings up and down, in short periods of time, than investments in diversified funds. Stocks that have wide price swings might have a large loss during the blackout period, and you would not be able to direct the sale of such stocks from your account during the blackout period. Whether or not you are planning retirement in the near future, we encourage you to carefully consider how this blackout period may affect your retirement and financial planning.
Federal law generally requires that you be furnished notice of a blackout period at least 30 days in advance of the last date on which you could exercise your affected rights immediately before the commencement of any blackout period, in order to provide you with sufficient time to consider the effect of the blackout period on your retirement and financial plans.
At year-end, the Wachovia Savings Plan will be merged into the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan. To merge the plans, there will be a second blackout period under each of these plans at year-end. You will receive an official notice informing you of this blackout period later this year.
If you have any questions concerning this notice, please call the HR Service Center at (1-877-479-3557). Plan Specialists are available from 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. Central Time, Monday through Friday.
1-877-HRWELLS
 

Exhibit 99.2
Wachovia Savings Plan Fund Changes
On October 6, 2009, we will begin to make changes to the Wachovia Savings Plan's investment lineup as the first step toward merging the Wachovia Savings Plan into the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan (the "Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan") at year-end. Because the fund changes will take a period of time to process there will be a blackout period beginning at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, October 6, 2009, with the blackout expected to end the week of October 12, 2009. This communication provides highlights of the fund changes and includes the legal notice for the blackout period.
During the blackout period, you will be temporarily unable to view your account or conduct any transactions, including directing or diversifying investments in your accounts, initiating and receiving a loan, requesting and receiving an in-service distribution (including hardship withdrawals) or obtaining a distribution from the plan. You will receive notice when the blackout period ends, and at that time you will be able to conduct transactions and make inquiries with respect to your accounts in the Wachovia Savings Plan.
As previously communicated in the 401(k) Plan announcement on July 29
th
, which can be viewed on , your account balances and your investment elections for future contributions will be automatically transferred to the most similar investment fund in the new fund lineup, as indicated in the following chart. Current investment elections and fund balances in the "OLD" column will transfer, or "map," to the "NEW" investment choices and asset classes. This transfer of funds is commonly referred to as "fund mapping." Mapping is designed to transfer assets to a new fund that most closely matches the asset class of the existing fund. Before funds are transferred in October, you should carefully review the investment options. You may reallocate your balances at any time before the blackout period begins. It's a good idea for you to talk with a professional investment advisor about the best investments for your particular situation.
Teamworks
[FUND MAPPING CHART REDACTED]
Learn More
Detailed fund information, including detailed fund fact sheets and prospectuses for those investment options, will be available in mid-September 2009. You can access the 2009 Wachovia Savings Plan Information Statement/Prospectus and Supplements and more information about the plan and your current investment options by signing on to the Wachovia Savings Plan Web site from Wachovia Benefits at .
My
https://hronline.wachovia.com/mybenefits
Important Notice Concerning Your Rights Under the Wachovia Savings Plan
This notice is to inform you that the Wachovia Savings Plan will undergo the fund changes as shown in the fund mapping chart (see above), beginning October 6, 2009, and ending the week of October 12, 2009.
In order to complete the Wachovia Savings Plan fund changes, you will not be able to make investment changes to your Wachovia Savings Plan accounts, obtain a loan or withdrawal from your Wachovia Savings Plan account (if actively employed), or obtain a distribution from your Wachovia Savings Plan account for the period beginning at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on Tuesday, October 6, 2009, and ending the week of October 12, 2009. This period, during which you will be unable to exercise these rights otherwise available under the Wachovia Savings Plan, is called a "blackout period."
As mentioned above, during the blackout period you will not be able to direct changes to or diversify the investments in your Wachovia Savings Plan account. For this reason, it is very important that you review and consider the appropriateness of your current investments in light of your inability to direct or diversify those investments during the blackout period. For your long-term retirement security, you should give careful consideration to the importance of a well-balanced and diversified investment portfolio, taking into account all your assets, income and investments. You should be aware that there is a risk to holding substantial portions of your assets in the securities of any one company, as individual securities tend to have wider price swings up and down, in short periods of time, than investments in diversified funds. Stocks that have wide price swings might have a large loss during the blackout period, and you would not be able to direct the sale of such stocks from your account during the blackout period. Whether or not you are planning retirement in the near future, we encourage you to carefully consider how this blackout period may affect your retirement and financial planning.
Federal law generally requires that you be furnished notice of a blackout period at least 30 days in advance of the last date on which you could exercise your affected rights immediately before the commencement of any blackout period, in order to provide you with sufficient time to consider the effect of the blackout period on your retirement and financial plans.
At year-end, the Wachovia Savings Plan will be merged into the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan. To merge the plans, there will be a second blackout period under each of these plans at year-end. You will receive an official notice informing you of this blackout period later this year.
Qualified Default Investment Alternatives Under the Wachovia Savings Plan
As a Wachovia Savings Plan participant, you decide where to invest your contributions from the broad range of investment options offered under the Wachovia Savings Plan. You can access the 2009 Wachovia Savings Plan Information Statement/Prospectus and Supplements and more information about the Plan and its investment options, including prospectuses and fund fact sheets for the Plan's investment options, by signing on to the Wachovia Savings Plan Web site from Wachovia Benefits at .
My
https://hronline.wachovia.com/mybenefits
If you have not affirmatively made an investment election under the Plan, contributions made to your account are currently invested in the age-based Vanguard Target Retirement Fund based on the year in which you will attain age 65. These funds are the Plan's qualified default investment alternatives ("QDIAs"). As noted above, amounts invested in each of the Vanguard Target Retirement Funds will be transferred to the appropriate Dow Jones Target Date Funds. Effective October 6, 2009, the Dow Jones Target Date Funds will become the new QDIAs under the Plan. If you do not make an affirmative investment election under the Plan, as of October 6, 2009, new contributions made on your account under the Plan will be invested in the Dow Jones Target Date Fund based on the year in which you will attain age 65. The Dow Jones Target Date Funds offer 10 Fund options with target dates set at five-year intervals. Each of the Dow Jones Target Date Funds is made up of 14 style-specific subindexes that represent three major asset classes: stocks, bonds, and cash. Each fund's investments are adjusted to become more conservative as the target date approaches. Participants are not charged a fee to transfer assets from the QDIA to other investment funds.
If you have questions concerning this notice, please call the Wachovia Benefits Center at 800-345-2897 and select option 1. When prompted, say "Retirement and Savings" and then "Savings Plan" to speak with a representative. Representatives are available from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Eastern Time, Monday through Friday.

Exhibit 99.3
 
The purpose of this notice is to inform you of restrictions on your ability, directly or indirectly, to buy, sell or transfer Wells Fargo equity securities or exercise stock options during the period scheduled to begin on October 6, 2009 and end not later than October 17, 2009.
Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the "Act"), Wells Fargo & Company ("Wells Fargo") is required to notify you of upcoming temporary restrictions on your ability to engage in certain activities regarding Wells Fargo equity securities. These temporary restrictions are mandated by the Act due to the upcoming blackout periods impacting the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan and the Wachovia Savings Plan (collectively, the "Plans"). The blackout period applicable to the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan is expected to begin at 3:00 p.m. Central Time on October 7, 2009 and end the week of October 12, 2009. The blackout period applicable to the Wachovia Savings Plan is expected to begin at 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on October 6, 2009 and end the week of October 12, 2009. We will notify you of any changes that affect the dates of the blackout periods. If you have any questions about these upcoming blackout periods, including to confirm the actual end date(s) of the blackout periods, you may contact Ben Jolley, Director of Wells Fargo Retirement Benefits, Wells Fargo & Company, 301 S. Tryon Street, MAC D1130-041, Charlotte North Carolina 28288, or by telephone at 704-374-3479.
The purpose of the blackout period for each of the Plans is to implement certain changes to the available investment fund options in anticipation of merging the Wachovia Savings Plan into the Wells Fargo & Company 401(k) Plan at year-end. During the applicable blackout periods, participants in the Plans will be unable to access their plan accounts, including being unable to direct or diversify investments, change contribution rates, or obtain loans or distributions.
Although certain transactions are exempt from these prohibitions (such as bona fide gifts), those exemptions are limited.
Because the Plans include Wells Fargo common stock funds as investment options, the Act requires that you be prohibited from directly or indirectly purchasing, exercising, selling, or otherwise transferring equity securities (including options and other derivative securities) of Wells Fargo during the blackout periods for the Plans if those securities were acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of Wells Fargo or legacy Wachovia. Transactions covered by this trading prohibition are not limited to those involving your direct ownership, but include any transaction in which you may have a pecuniary interest (e.g., transactions by members of your immediate family who share your household, as well as by certain entities in which you have financial involvement).
At year-end, the Wachovia Savings Plan will be merged into the Wells Fargo 401(k) Plan. To merge the plans, there will be a second blackout period under each of these plans at year-end. You will receive a separate notice informing you of that additional blackout period and applicable trading restrictions later this year.
The rules are complex and criminal and civil penalties may be imposed upon directors and executive officers who violate the rules. Therefore, please contact me at 612-667-8655 or Ross Jeffries at 704-374-3234 if you have any questions or if you believe that a transaction in which you have a pecuniary interest may occur during the blackout periods.


