FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20090722080114.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 22, 2009, Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2009, and posted on its website supplemental information related to credit performance of certain of the Company's loan portfolios for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2009 (the "Credit Supplement"). The press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02. The information included in Exhibit 99.1 is considered to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Credit Supplement is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02. Exhibit 99.2 shall not be considered "filed" for purposes of Section 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company will report complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2009, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
See footnote (4) on page 18 for information about pre-tax pre-provision profit.
1
 
 
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) reported diluted earnings per common share of $0.57 for second quarter 2009 compared with $0.56 for first quarter 2009 and $0.53 for second quarter 2008. (Results prior to January 1, 2009, do not include Wachovia.) Wells Fargo net income was a record $3.17 billion for second quarter 2009 and $6.22 billion for the first six months of 2009. "Our very strong growth in revenue, deposits and net income this quarter and the first half of this year demonstrates again that the combined Wells Fargo-Wachovia has significant power to generate capital internally," said President and CEO John Stumpf. "Thanks to the customer focus of our 282,000 talented team members, our revenue rose 28 percent (annualized) from first quarter as we set new cross-sell records and gained even more market share by satisfying all our customers' financial needs and helping them succeed financially. At legacy Wells Fargo, 41 percent of our retail households have a cross-sell ratio over six, and one out of every four retail households now have at least eight products with us. Our Wachovia team members also contributed significantly to our results this quarter and the first half of the year, generating 39 percent of consolidated second quarter revenue. Wells Fargo Advisors (formerly Wachovia Securities) was ranked #1 by Forrester Research among all investment/brokerage firms based on client perceptions for doing what's best for me and my household.'
"Our top priority is to integrate Wachovia into Wells Fargo as smoothly and efficiently as possible to benefit our 70 million customers, which equals about one of every three U.S. households. The Wells Fargo-Wachovia integration is on track. In November, Colorado will become our first community banking state to convert Wachovia's financial centers to Wells Fargo systems, brand and sales processes  a conversion process that will continue deliberately and thoughtfully, region by region and state by state, throughout next year and into 2011.
"Our team achieved these results while undertaking the largest merger integration in U.S. banking history and despite the challenging economy. We intend to pay back the government's investment in Wells Fargo on behalf of U.S. taxpayers in a shareholder-friendly way. We will work closely with our regulators to determine the appropriate time to repay the funds while maintaining strong capital levels."
 
Financial Performance
"We're very pleased with the Company's accomplishments and results this quarter," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "We earned another record profit  $3.17 billion  after earning $3.05 billion in first quarter. We continued to profitably build our franchise for the long term, with revenue up 28 percent (annualized) linked quarter across multiple, diverse business lines. We've extended more than $471 billion of loans to creditworthy customers since October 2008, including $206 billion in new loan commitments and originations this quarter. Our net interest margin increased to 4.30 percent, largely reflecting what we believe is the best core customer deposit base among large banks, with checking and savings deposits up 20 percent (annualized) this quarter. We took many actions to further strengthen our balance sheet, including building credit reserves to $23.5 billion and building Tier 1 common equity to $47.1 billion, or 4.49 percent of risk-weighted assets, and building Tier 1 capital to 9.8 percent of risk-weighted assets. While the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) will not be completed until after the third quarter is finished, we have already generated $14.2 billion from market and internal sources toward the $13.7 billion capital buffer required by the Federal Reserve and expect to generate additional capital internally in the third quarter. We're seeing some signs of moderation in consumer and small business credit losses, largely due to our efforts over the last two years to modify and restructure loans for our customers, our successful efforts to reduce high risk loan portfolios and the write-downs we already took in Wachovia's loan portfolios. The Wachovia integration remains on track, with business and revenue synergies already exceeding our expectations."
Revenue
Record revenue of $22.5 billion increased 28 percent (annualized) from first quarter 2009. Year-to-date revenue was $43.5 billion, almost double legacy Wells Fargo's revenue for the comparable period last year. "We continued to have a very good balance in our revenue generation between commercial and retail, between spread income and fee income, and between legacy Wells Fargo and Wachovia," said Atkins. "The vast majority of our more than 80 businesses grew revenue again this quarter, including the following diverse businesses that all achieved greater than 8 percent (annualized) linked-quarter growth: regional banking, mortgage banking, investment banking/capital markets, asset-based lending, auto lending, student lending, debit card, merchant card, wealth management, securities brokerage, retirement services and international."
Net Interest Income
Net interest income was $11.8 billion, up 14 percent (annualized) from $11.4 billion in first quarter 2009. Average earning assets were up $1.3 billion linked quarter, with an increase of $30.7 billion in securities and mortgage loans held for sale. This increase was partially offset by a reduction of $3.7 billion in average trading assets and a reduction of $21.6 billion in average loans, including $6.3 billion in the higher-risk loan portfolios that the Company has been exiting, such as indirect home equity and indirect auto from legacy Wells Fargo, and Wachovia's Pick-a-Pay and commercial real estate portfolios. "At 4.30 percent, our net interest margin remained the best among our large bank peers and reflected the
 
benefit of continued growth in core customer deposits," said Atkins. "About 80 percent of our core deposits are now in checking and savings deposits, one of the highest percentages in the industry."
Loans
Average total loans were $833.9 billion compared with $855.6 billion in first quarter 2009, reflecting more moderate consumer and commercial demand for credit, as well as the Company's actions to reduce certain higher-risk loan portfolios. Average total loans included $159.6 billion of these loans in the portfolios that the Company is running off, down $6.3 billion, or 15 percent (annualized) from first quarter and $10.9 billion year-to-date. "We continue to extend credit and meet loan demand for all of our credit-worthy borrowers," said Atkins.
Deposits
Average total core deposits were $765.7 billion compared with $753.9 billion in first quarter 2009. Average consumer checking and savings deposits increased 20 percent (annualized) to $613.3 billion, from $583.8 billion in first quarter 2009. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $32.0 billion, compared with $25.2 billion in first quarter 2009. Average consumer checking accounts at legacy Wells Fargo grew a net 6.5 percent from second quarter 2008, and for Wells Fargo and Wachovia combined, grew a net 9.5 percent in California for the same period. During the quarter, $24 billion of Wachovia's higher-cost certificates of deposit matured and were replaced by $14 billion in checking, savings or lower-cost CDs. "We continue to see strong core deposit growth across all customer segments as we gain new customers, deepen our market penetration and expand relationships with existing customers," said Atkins.
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income of $10.7 billion increased 46 percent (annualized) from $9.6 billion in first quarter 2009 and included:
 
At June 30, 2009, the Company had net unrealized losses on securities available for sale reflected in equity of only $400 million, down from losses of $4.7 billion at March 31, 2009. "The net unrealized losses were virtually eliminated as credit spreads narrowed during the quarter and as unrealized gains emerged on new mortgage-backed securities (MBS) purchased during the quarter at the peak in MBS yields," said Atkins.
Noninterest Expense
Noninterest expense was $12.7 billion compared with $11.8 billion in first quarter. The increase was due to the FDIC special assessment of $565 million and higher variable compensation in mortgage, brokerage, and investment banking related to increased customer sales. Noninterest expense also included $244 million of merger-related costs. "We continued to hire new sales professionals in the quarter in our regional bank and retail securities brokerage business while improving sales force productivity," said Atkins. "In addition, we opened 12 banking stores during the quarter. Even though we continue to invest appropriately in our business for long-term revenue growth, expenses were relatively flat overall reflecting the benefit of the consolidation of the two companies, and ongoing expense management initiatives." Including the FDIC special assessment and merger costs, which together represented 6 percent of total noninterest expense during the quarter, the efficiency ratio was 56.4 percent, flat from first quarter's 56.2 percent.
Capital
The Company continued to build capital in the second quarter. As a percentage of total risk-weighted assets, Tier 1 capital, tangible common equity, and Tier 1 common equity increased to 9.80 percent, 5.24 percent, and 4.49 percent, respectively, at June 30, 2009, up from 8.30 percent, 3.84 percent, and 3.12 percent, respectively, at March 31, 2009. "As we previously stated, the Federal Reserve asked us to generate a $13.7 billion regulatory capital buffer by November 9, 2009, based on what we believed were their extremely conservative revenue assumptions in the adverse case scenario," said Atkins. "At June 30, 2009, with over a quarter to go before the SCAP plan is completed, we have exceeded this requirement by
 
$500 million. We accomplished this through an $8.6 billion equity raise, and internally generated capital including $2.4 billion of pre-provision net revenue (pre-tax pre-provision profit plus certain SCAP adjustments) in excess of the Federal Reserve's estimate, $2.7 billion realization of deferred tax assets and $500 million of other internally generated sources of capital, including core deposit intangible amortization. We expect to realize additional internally generated SCAP-qualifying capital in the third quarter which will add to the amount already generated in the second quarter. Our actual pre-provision net revenue for the first two quarters of 2009 was above our own SCAP projection and surpassed the Federal Reserve's projection by $4.2 billion, or 27 percent." See footnote (4) on page 18 and the table on page 26 for more information.
Credit Quality
2
"Credit losses rose in the second quarter, as expected, due to the weak economy and higher unemployment in the quarter," said Chief Credit Officer Mike Loughlin. "We expect credit losses and nonperforming assets to increase, although we're beginning to see some moderation in the rate of growth of losses in a number of consumer portfolios, as evidenced by some stabilization in early stage delinquencies, largely the result of actions we've taken over the last two years to reduce risk."
Net Loan Charge-Offs
See explanation on page 39 of the accounting for credit-impaired loans acquired from Wachovia accounted for under SOP 03-3, and the impact on selected financial ratios.
2
 
Second quarter net charge-offs were $4.4 billion, or 2.11 percent of average loans, compared with first quarter net charge-offs of $3.3 billion, or 1.54 percent of average loans. Legacy Wells Fargo net charge-offs were $3.4 billion compared with $2.9 billion in first quarter 2009 and Wachovia net charge-offs totaled $984 million compared with $371 million in first quarter 2009. "As a result of our merger, the Wachovia loans with the highest expected loss content were classified as impaired and the expected life of loan loss content was reflected in purchase accounting write-downs at December 31, 2008," said Loughlin. "The remaining non-impaired portfolio, by definition, should have lower loss content. The losses in the non-impaired portfolio increased in the quarter as anticipated given the effects of purchase accounting and portfolio deterioration. We expect the non-impaired portfolios to perform significantly better than the impaired portfolios that have already been written down through purchase accounting.
"We continue to take actions to reduce risk in the portfolio and invest in loss mitigation activities. We took significant write-downs in the Wachovia portfolio in purchase accounting; we have exited several higher risk non-strategic businesses and are liquidating these portfolios, such as Pick-a-Pay, legacy Wells Fargo indirect auto and the broker-originated home equity portfolios. We continue to monitor credit standards to improve the credit quality of new loans, all in an effort to reduce the risk in the portfolio while continuing to originate appropriately priced new business for our customers. Even with the challenges that remain, our teams are effectively working together to manage the risk, and the Wells Fargo credit culture is being implemented across the combined company."
Commercial and commercial real estate net charge-offs totaled $1.1 billion, including $897 million from legacy Wells Fargo and $246 million from Wachovia, a combined increase of $446 million linked quarter. "As expected, the challenging economy affected the commercial portfolios, and more specifically those portfolios tied to the residential real estate industry," said Loughlin. "We believe that our disciplined underwriting, the write-downs previously recognized through purchase accounting and our diligent work with challenged borrowers will contain the growth in losses going forward."
Net charge-offs in the 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio totaled $758 million, including $410 million from legacy Wells Fargo and $348 million from Wachovia, a combined increase of $367 million linked quarter. "The loss levels in our 1-4 family first mortgage portfolio increased as expected, in part due to increased loan modifications and the lifting of the foreclosure moratorium," said Loughlin. "While we are seeing some encouraging signs of home sales in California, housing prices need to stabilize broadly before credit results in the mortgage portfolio will improve." Credit card charge-offs increased $82 million linked quarter to $664 million. "While late stage delinquencies and loss rates continue to be challenged by the high levels of unemployment and bankruptcies, we are beginning to see some stabilization in early stage delinquency in the unsecured consumer loan portfolios. Losses in the auto portfolio fell modestly in the quarter as we've worked through some of the poorer performing vintages and used car pricing has improved."
 
Net charge-offs in the real estate 1-4 family junior lien portfolio totaled $1.2 billion, including $991 million from legacy Wells Fargo and $180 million from Wachovia, a combined increase of $324 million from first quarter 2009. "The rate of decline in home values appears to be moderating in a number of markets," said Loughlin. "While the loss amounts are directly correlated to these property values, other events affecting the consumer, such as unemployment, drive the loss frequency. Many of our home equity losses involve customers who are having problems with their first mortgage due to unemployment or over-indebtedness. Additionally, as more customers seek to modify their first mortgages, there may be an adverse effect on the credit performance of junior lien holders behind these modifications." More information about the Home Equity portfolio is available on page 40.
Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets
Total nonperforming assets were $18.3 billion (2.23 percent of total loans) at June 30, 2009, and included $15.8 billion of nonaccrual loans and $2.5 billion of foreclosed assets (repossessed real estate and vehicles). Nonaccrual loans increased $5.3 billion from March 31, 2009, with increases in both the commercial and consumer portfolios.
"The increase in nonaccrual loans was attributable to four factors," said Loughlin. "First, about 60 percent of the increase came from Wachovia's non-impaired loan portfolios. This increase was expected and is primarily the natural result of experiencing new inflows to nonaccruals after having virtually eliminated
 
Wachovia's nonaccruals at the end of the year through purchase accounting write-downs. Going forward the increase in nonaccrual loans attributable to this effect will be much less significant. Second, the economics to liquidate assets in this market remain challenging and may cause us to temporarily hold onto assets longer. Third, we've increased the number of loan modifications and other strategies to keep our customers in their homes. These newly modified loans may remain in nonperforming assets until they demonstrate performance. And finally, we have seen some deterioration in certain portfolios, particularly commercial real estate, as some borrowers are distressed. Not all nonaccrual loans turn into future credit losses. The vast majority are secured by residential or commercial real estate, and some write-downs may already have occurred as loans migrated through delinquency buckets. We firmly believe our approach to managing nonaccruals to minimize loss over time is sound, although the result will be continued high levels of nonaccruals until economic conditions improve a dynamic factored into our reserving methodology."
(Excluding Insured/Guaranteed GNMA and Similar Loans)
Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing
Includes Wells Fargo and Wachovia
*The table above does not include loans acquired from Wachovia accounted for under SOP 03-3 that were contractually 90 days past due and still accruing. These loans have a related nonaccretable difference that will absorb future losses, therefore charge-offs on these loans are not expected to reduce income in future periods to the extent that actual future loan performance is consistent with original estimates.
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing totaled $16.7 billion at June 30, 2009, and $14.7 billion at March 31, 2009. For the same periods, the totals included $10.7 billion and $9.5 billion, respectively, in advances pursuant to the Company's servicing agreement to GNMA mortgage pools and similar loans whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
 
Allowance for Credit Losses
(Includes Wells Fargo and, beginning December 31, 2008, Wachovia)
The allowance for credit losses, including the reserve for unfunded commitments, totaled $23.5 billion at June 30, 2009, compared with $22.8 billion at March 31, 2009. Second quarter 2009 results included a credit reserve build of $700 million, primarily for higher losses in several consumer credit portfolios, increased levels of residential real estate modifications classified as troubled debt restructurings and expected deterioration in the wholesale portfolios and commercial non-SOP 03-3 impaired loans. The allowance coverage to total loans increased to 2.86 percent compared with 2.71 percent at March 31, 2009, and covered expected consumer losses for approximately the next 12 months and inherent commercial and commercial real estate loan losses expected to emerge over approximately the next 24 months. "We believe the allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at June 30, 2009, including both performing and nonperforming loans," said Loughlin.
Business Segment Performance
Wells Fargo defines its operating segments by product type and customer segment. Segment net income for each of the three business segments was:
More financial information about the business segments is on pages 34 and 35.
 
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C.
Selected Financial Information
Community Banking reported net income of $2.0 billion in second quarter 2009, up $169 million, or 9 percent, from first quarter. Revenue increased $854 million, or 6 percent, driven by an increase in net interest margin and strong regional banking and mortgage banking fee income. Noninterest income increased $567 million, or 10 percent, from prior quarter driven by continued strength in mortgage banking and strong growth in deposit service charges and card fees. Noninterest expense increased $507 million, or 7 percent, due primarily to FDIC and other deposit assessments. The provision for credit losses increased $260 million, and included a $479 million credit reserve build compared with a $1 billion credit reserve build in the prior quarter.
Regional Banking Highlights for Legacy Wells Fargo
 
Regional Banking Highlights for Wachovia
Combined Regional Banking
Online Banking
Home Mortgage
Wells Fargo Financial
 
Wholesale Banking
provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of $10 million and financial institutions globally. Products include middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, correspondent banking, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, corporate trust, investment banking, capital markets and asset management.
Selected Financial Information
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $1.07 billion in second quarter 2009, compared with $1.18 billion in first quarter 2009. Revenue increased $331 million, primarily due to strong results in investment banking and capital markets. Noninterest expense increased $276 million, primarily due to higher FDIC assessments. The provision for credit losses was $738 million, an increase of $193 million from first quarter 2009, and included $576 million from net charge-offs and $162 million of additional provision recorded to build reserves for the wholesale portfolio.
 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients using a comprehensive planning approach to meet each client's needs. Wealth Management provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions including financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Family Wealth meets the unique needs of the ultra high net worth customers. Retail brokerage's financial advisors serve customers' advisory, brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the U.S. Retirement provides retirement services for individual investors and is a national leader in 401(k) and pension record keeping.
Selected Financial Information
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement reported net income of $363 million, up 40 percent linked quarter. Second quarter earnings were driven by increased brokerage transaction activity, improved market valuations, strong deposit growth and securities gains.
Retail Brokerage
Wealth Management
Retirement
 
Recorded Message
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results is available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through July 25, 2009. Dial 866-416-0522 (domestic) or 706-902-3479 (international). No password is required. The call is also available online at .
wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/earnings
Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Information
In accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution you that this news release contains forward-looking statements about our future financial performance and business. We make forward-looking statements when we use words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "should," "may," "can," "will" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements in this news release include, among others, the following statements: we expect to internally generate additional SCAP-qualifying capital in the third quarter; in November, Colorado will become our first community-banking state to convert Wachovia's financial centers to Wells Fargo's systems, brand and processes-a conversion process that will continue throughout next year and into 2011; we intend to pay back the government's investment in Wells Fargo on behalf of U.S. taxpayers in a shareholder-friendly way; short-term rates, for purposes of hedge carry income, will likely continue to be low; we expect credit losses and nonperforming assets to increase; the Wachovia non-impaired portfolio should have lower loss content; we expect Wachovia's non-impaired portfolios to perform significantly better than the impaired portfolios that have already been written down through purchase accounting; we believe that our disciplined underwriting, the write-downs previously recognized through purchase accounting and our diligent work with challenged borrowers will reduce losses going forward; housing prices need to stabilize broadly before credit results in the mortgage portfolio will improve; we expect going forward the increase in nonaccrual loans attributable to this effect will be much less significant; our loan modifications and other strategies to keep our customers in their homes will result in continued future growth in nonperforming assets until economic conditions improve; there will be continued high levels of nonaccruals until economic conditions improve; and we believe the allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at June 30, 2009, including both performing and nonperforming loans.
Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements as actual results could differ materially from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes or events that occur after that date. Several factors could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations including: current economic and market conditions; our capital requirements and ability to raise capital on favorable terms; the terms of capital investments or other financial assistance provided by the U.S. government; legislative proposals to allow mortgage cram-downs in bankruptcy or force other loan modifications; our ability to successfully integrate the Wachovia merger and realize the expected cost savings and other benefits; our ability to realize efficiency initiatives to lower expenses when and in the amount expected; the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses; recognition of other-than-temporary impairment on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio; the effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; hedging gains or losses; disruptions in the capital markets and reduced investor demand for mortgages loans; our ability to sell more products to our customers; the effect of the economic recession on the demand for our products and services; the effect of fluctuations in stock market prices on fee income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management businesses; our election to provide support to our mutual funds for structured credit products they may hold; changes in the value of our venture capital investments; changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards or in how accounting standards are to be applied; mergers and acquisitions; federal and state regulations; reputational damage from negative publicity, fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, the loss of checking and saving account deposits to other investments such as the stock market, and fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. There is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets, housing prices, and unemployment do not stabilize or improve. Increases in loan charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses and related provision expense could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. There is no assurance that we will meet the SCAP capital requirement on the November 9, 2009 deadline established by the Federal Reserve Board. Although we exceeded the requirement at June 30, 2009, our common equity capital could fall between
 
now and the deadline, causing us not to meet the requirement. Failure to meet the requirement could result in the issuance of equity securities or the conversion of preferred securities into common stock, resulting in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. For more information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, refer to our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, including the discussions under "Risk Factors" in each of those reports, as filed with the SEC and available on the SEC's website at . Any factor described above or in our SEC reports could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition.
www.sec.gov
About Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $1.3 trillion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through more than 10,000 stores, over 12,000 ATMs and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)(2)
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 12
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA (
) (
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN TOTAL EQUITY
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
TANGIBLE AND TIER 1 COMMON EQUITY
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER NONPERFORMING ASSETS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)(2)
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)(2)
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
LOANS SUBJECT TO SOP 03-3
Certain loans acquired from Wachovia have evidence of credit deterioration since origination and it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments (referred to as "credit impaired" loans). Such loans are accounted for under American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 03-3, (SOP 03-3). SOP 03-3 requires that acquired loans be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and prohibits carryover of the related allowance for loan losses. The difference between contractually required payments and cash flows expected to be collected is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. The difference between the cash flows expected to be collected and the fair value is referred to as the accretable yield.
Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer
Because SOP 03-3 loans have been written down in purchase accounting to an amount estimated to be collectible, such loans are not classified as nonaccrual even though they may be contractually past due. Also, losses on such loans are charged against the nonaccretable difference established in purchase accounting and, as such, are not reported as charge-offs.
As a result of the application of SOP 03-3 to credit-impaired Wachovia loans, certain ratios of the combined company cannot be used to compare a portfolio that includes acquired credit-impaired loans accounted for under SOP 03-3 against one that does not, or to compare ratios across quarters or years. The ratios particularly affected by the accounting under SOP 03-3 include the allowance for loan losses and allowance for credit losses as percentages of loans, of nonaccrual loans and of nonperforming assets; nonaccrual loans and nonperforming assets as a percentage of total loans; and net charge-offs as a percentage of loans.
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
PICK-A-PAY PORTFOLIO
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


