FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20091021080721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 21, 2009, Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its results of operations and financial condition for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2009, and posted on its website its 3Q09 Quarterly Supplement (the "Quarterly Supplement"), which contains certain additional historical and forward-looking information relating to the Company. The press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02. The information included in Exhibit 99.1 is considered to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Quarterly Supplement is included as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02. Exhibit 99.2 shall not be considered "filed" for purposes of Section 18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into the filings of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933. The Company will report complete financial statements and additional analyses for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2009, as part of its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q covering that period.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Corporate Communications
News Release
 
 
 
Selected Financial Information
SAN FRANCISCO  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) reported diluted earnings per common share of $0.56 for third quarter 2009 compared with $0.57 for second quarter 2009 and $0.49 for third quarter 2008. (Results prior to January 1, 2009, do not include Wachovia.) Wells Fargo net income was a record $3.24 billion for third quarter 2009, up 98 percent from last year, and a record $9.45 billion for the first nine months of 2009, up 75 percent from last year.
"Doing what's right for our customers again proved to be right for our stockholders as our talented team members earned even more of our customers' business, enabling us to achieve our third consecutive quarter of record earnings," said President and CEO John Stumpf. "The Wells Fargo-Wachovia merger, agreed to a year ago, is exceeding our expectations and already adding value for many of our 70 million customers across North America. Merger costs have been significantly less than originally expected. With our 80-plus businesses pulling the stagecoach, the diversity of our business model again showed significant power to generate capital internally. We had solid performance across our company  especially among counter-cyclical businesses such as deposits, residential mortgages, debit card and asset-based lending. We're also doing what's right for our mortgage customers having difficulty making their payments on time. We've offered home payment relief to 1.3 million customers so far this year,
 
including 355,000 loan modifications. We now have 13,000 team members working on helping customers stay in their homes and our delinquency and foreclosure rates continue to be well below the industry average. As we've already announced, Dick Kovacevich will step down as chairman and a director at the end of 2009 and retire from the Company in early 2010. I am grateful to Dick and to Wells Fargo's leadership team and believe we have the strongest, most experienced team of senior leaders in all of financial services. They've led our businesses to a strong third quarter, following two consecutive quarters of record earnings, despite the economic recession. This is something that few, if any, financial services companies have achieved  and during the most challenging credit cycle in recent memory and while we continue to build reserves.
Wells Fargo has always been committed to providing clear, complete, and transparent communication about the Company's results to all of its stakeholders. As we enter the second year of the merger with Wachovia, we will be expanding our quarterly communications to include a live quarterly earnings conference call  starting in January for our fourth quarter and full year 2009 results  and we will also host an investor day in 2010."
Financial Performance
"Third quarter results again illustrated the Company's ability to profitably grow, even through the downward cycle despite elevated credit losses," said Chief Financial Officer Howard Atkins. "Since the merger with Wachovia at year-end 2008, we've earned a record $9.45 billion, even after building credit reserves by $3.0 billion and recording $1.4 billion of other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) charges. Pre-tax pre-provision profit has grown every quarter this year, reaching a record $10.8 billion in the third quarter, more than double quarterly net charge-offs. While mortgage origination and hedging results contributed to our performance, collectively all of our other businesses have also grown PTPP each quarter this year reflecting the breadth of our diversified business model, record levels of sales and cross-sell, the realization of revenue synergies from the combination with Wachovia, and further improvements in our net interest margin to 4.36 percent and efficiency ratio to 52.0 percent. We continued to maintain what we believe is one of the strongest balance sheets in banking, building credit reserves by $1.0 billion in the quarter to $24.5 billion, or 3.07 percent of total loans, reducing previously identified non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios to $152.7 billion, down over $14 billion from year end, and reducing the value of our debt and equity investment portfolios through $396 million of OTTI. Also, in line with lower mortgage rates, the ratio of mortgage servicing rights (MSRs) as a percentage of loans serviced for others was 83 basis points, the third lowest ratio in our Company's history and a level considerably lower than our mortgage peers.
"We have significantly built capital, increasing common stockholders' equity to $123 billion, up $23 billion so far in 2009 and increasing Tier 1 common to 5.2 percent, nearly two times our capital position at year-end 2008. Nonperforming loans and net charge-offs increased in the quarter, but the rate of growth of nonperforming loans has declined each quarter so far this year. While the level of nonperforming assets and losses is expected to remain elevated for a period of time, we currently expect
 
total credit losses to peak in 2010, with consumer losses potentially peaking in the first half of the year and gradually declining as the year progresses, absent any further deterioration in the U.S. economy. Our credit reserves as of September 30, 2009, reflect an improvement in consumer loss emergence with almost all of the current quarter reserve build covering higher commercial loss emergence.
"Operationally and financially, the Wachovia merger is exceeding our expectations. Structurally, the merger leaves us with an even more diversified business than legacy Wells Fargo alone  less geographic concentration, an even wider array of products and services, better balance between consumer and commercial businesses, and an equal split between spread income and fee income. We are currently on track to realize our objective of $5.0 billion in annual run-rate savings when we complete the integration in 2011, with about 30-40 percent of those savings now beginning to be realized in our expense run-rate. We now expect to spend about $2.4 billion less in merger and integration costs than previously expected to achieve the run-rate savings, largely because proportionately more of the labor savings are being realized through attrition instead of severance and because we're spending less than planned on building disposition, as we fill unoccupied space with third party tenants. We are ahead of plan in shedding asset risk from businesses that do not meet our financial and strategic criteria and in retaining deposits and customers. We're already realizing meaningful revenue synergies, an important driver of our earnings this year. Because Wachovia's credit-impaired loan portfolios were written down at the close of the merger at the end of last year, Wachovia is now contributing to the Company's rapid internal capital growth."  
Revenue
Revenue of $22.5 billion remained at near-record levels following strong first and second quarters. Relative to the pre-Wachovia third quarter a year ago, the Company's assets almost doubled, while total revenue has substantially more than doubled, despite the weak economy and despite the reduction in non-strategic/liquidating loan and asset portfolios. The high levels of revenue generated in the third quarter related to several factors:
 
Net Interest Income
Net interest income was $11.7 billion, compared with $11.8 billion in second quarter 2009. While the net interest margin improved to 4.36 percent, average earning assets were down $23.7 billion linked quarter, reflecting soft loan demand and reductions in non-strategic/liquidating assets. While average investment securities were up $7.3 billion, this largely reflected the averaging effect in the quarter of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) purchased late in the second quarter at yields more than 1 percent above current market. During the third quarter, $23 billion of the lowest-yielding MBS were sold to reduce exposure to higher long-term interest rates.
Loans
Average total loans were $810.2 billion compared with $833.9 billion in second quarter 2009, as consumer and commercial demand for credit remained moderate and the Company continued to reduce certain higher-risk loan portfolios. The decline in average loans included a reduction of $5.7 billion linked quarter in the non-strategic and liquidating loan portfolios that the Company has been exiting, such as indirect home equity and indirect auto from legacy Wells Fargo, and Wachovia's Pick-a-Pay and commercial real estate portfolios.
Deposits
Average total core deposits were $759.3 billion compared with $765.7 billion in second quarter 2009. During the quarter, $38 billion of Wachovia's higher-rate certificates of deposit matured, with $22 billion of those balances retained. "We continued to gain new deposit customers and deepen our relationship with existing customers," said Atkins. Average checking and savings deposits increased 11 percent (annualized) to $629.6 billion from $613.3 billion in second quarter 2009. Average mortgage escrow deposits were $28.7 billion compared with $32.0 billion in second quarter 2009. Average consumer checking accounts at legacy Wells Fargo grew a net 6.4 percent from third quarter 2008 and, for Wells Fargo and Wachovia combined, grew a net 5.2 percent in California for the same period.
 
Noninterest Income
Noninterest income of $10.8 billion was flat compared with $10.7 billion in second quarter 2009 and included:
Due to the general decline in long-term yields and narrowing of credit spreads in the quarter, the Company's net unrealized securities gains, reflected in equity, increased to $6.6 billion at September 30, 2009, from net losses of $400 million at June 30, 2009.
Noninterest Expense
Noninterest expense declined to $11.7 billion from $12.7 billion in the second quarter, which included $565 million of FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The balance of the decline in third quarter expense was due to merger consolidation savings and ongoing expense management initiatives. "We currently expect cumulative merger integration costs of approximately $5.5 billion, down from our previous $7.9 billion estimate," said Atkins. "The revised estimate reflects lower owned real estate write-downs and lower estimated severance costs since a greater proportion of labor savings is being realized through attrition. Of this $5.5 billion, we've spent $1.0 billion merger to date, including $200 million in the third quarter. Of the amount spent thus far, $444 million has been recorded through the income statement and $559 million has been recorded through purchase accounting adjustments to goodwill. A portion of the
 
remaining integration costs will be charged to goodwill in the fourth quarter under purchase accounting. The balance of the cumulative estimated integration costs are expected to be expensed over the next two years, and are likely to be offset by merger-related savings during this period. We remain on track to achieve $5.0 billion in annual run-rate savings upon completion of the integration in 2011. To date, we have achieved approximately 30-40 percent of these savings." Noninterest expense also included $100 million of additional insurance reserve at the Company's captive mortgage reinsurance operation and $49 million of non-Wachovia-related integration costs. "As we reduce expenses through consolidation and other expense initiatives, we continue to reinvest in our businesses for long-term revenue growth," said Atkins. "During 2009, we've opened 41 banking stores and converted 1,274 ATMs to  machines. We have also continued to increase the level and productivity of our sales force in community banking, commercial banking and wealth management. We continue to manage to a variable expense base in the mortgage company. Part-time staff was reduced in third quarter as application volume declined, and increased again in September and early in the fourth quarter as applications increased." The Company's efficiency ratio improved to 52.0 percent from 56.4 percent in second quarter and 56.2 percent in first quarter.
Envelope-FreewebATM
SM
Capital
"We have rebuilt capital significantly this year," said Atkins, "with most of our capital ratios now higher  in some cases substantially so  than they were just before the Wachovia merger a year ago."
Stockholders' equity now stands at $122 billion, up $50 billion from a year ago (excluding the U.S. Treasury's $25 billion Capital Purchase Program investment), up $23 billion from post-merger closing year-end equity and up $8 billion just in the third quarter of this year alone. "In the past year, we have more than doubled stockholders' equity while significantly reducing risk and increasing internal capital momentum," said Atkins. Tier 1 common equity grew from second quarter 2009 entirely from internally generated sources  record retained earnings, realization of deferred tax assets and stock issued to the Company's benefit plans. Through September 30, 2009, the Company generated $20 billion, including the $8.6 billion equity raise in the second quarter, toward the $13.7 billion regulatory capital buffer under SCAP, exceeding the requirement by $6 billion. "A major contributor to our strong results compared with the regulatory SCAP requirement has been our consistent outperformance on pre-tax pre-provision profit year to date, which confirmed the confidence we've had from the beginning of this process in the underlying revenue strength of our company and the consistency of our revenue generation even in
 
adverse scenarios," said Atkins. See footnote (4) on page 20 and the table on page 38 for more information.
In January, the Company will adopt FAS 166/167, which will result in the consolidation of certain off-balance sheet assets not currently included in its financial statements. The Company's current estimate is that FAS 166/167 is expected to add approximately $28 billion in risk-weighted assets. This latest analysis is lower than originally projected primarily due to a reduction in the amount of securitized residential mortgages expected to be consolidated. In addition, the Company continues to explore the sale of certain interests held in securitized residential mortgage loans, which would be expected to reduce further the amount of incremental GAAP assets and incremental risk-weighted assets.
Credit Quality
"While the challenging credit cycle continues and losses remain elevated, we have begun to see early indications of consumer credit stability," said Chief Credit and Risk Officer Mike Loughlin. "In the third quarter, this stabilization was evident in several consumer loan portfolios, while the consumer real estate portfolio continued to vary across geography. Some real estate markets, such as California, have had increased home sales and home price stabilization and, as these conditions improve in more markets, we expect to see improvement in credit results. Third quarter commercial and commercial real estate losses remained at manageable levels, reflecting the high-quality of Wells Fargo's commercial loan portfolio and the fact that Wachovia's commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolios were already written down at the end of last year.
"Nonperforming assets and credit losses increased during the quarter, and once again we increased reserve levels to provide for the additional risk. We expect credit losses and nonperforming assets to continue to increase in the near term, but at a slower rate as we have seen the pace of deterioration slow. Based on our current economic outlook, we expect losses to peak in 2010, with consumer losses expected to peak in the first half of 2010 and commercial and commercial real estate losses expected to peak in the second half of 2010. The recovery may take some time to gain momentum and changes in the economic outlook could affect this time horizon."
Credit Losses
Third quarter net charge-offs were $5.1 billion, or 2.50 percent of average loans, compared with second quarter net charge-offs of $4.4 billion, or 2.11 percent of average loans. While losses were up in the quarter, the increase in terms of both dollars and percentages moderated from prior quarter growth. The overall quarterly loss rate in the third quarter, 2.50 percent, is substantially lower than reported large peer loss rates partly because Wells Fargo had already written down Wachovia's higher-risk loan portfolios at year end. Reflecting, in part, stabilizing credit performance, legacy Wells Fargo net charge-offs were $3.4 billion, or 3.37 percent of average loans. Wachovia's net charge-offs increased to $1.7 billion, or 1.66 percent of average loans, compared with $984 million in second quarter 2009, due to some deterioration in its portfolios and the lagging effect of purchase accounting.
 
Total credit losses of $5.1 billion included $1.5 billion of commercial and commercial real estate loans (1.78 percent of average loans) and $3.6 billion in consumer loans (3.13 percent of average loans), as shown in the following table.
(1)
Net Loan Charge-Offs
 
"Commercial and commercial real estate charge-offs remained manageable in the third quarter," said Loughlin. "In fact, legacy Wells Fargo's commercial and commercial real estate losses declined $35 million, or 4 percent, in the quarter. The increase in commercial and commercial real estate losses was entirely in the Wachovia non-impaired portfolio, in part reflecting the fact that charge-offs are just now coming through Wachovia's portfolio after having eliminated nonaccruals through purchase accounting at the end of last year. The overall loss rate in third quarter for Wachovia's commercial and commercial real estate portfolio was roughly comparable to Wells Fargo's higher-quality commercial portfolio. While the industry is likely to experience elevated commercial and commercial real estate losses, we continue to believe we have one of the best commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolios among large bank peers given our long-standing underwriting discipline and because we wrote down Wachovia's commercial and commercial real estate portfolio when we closed the acquisition at year end."
Consumer losses were up 12 percent in the third quarter, with virtually all of the increase in Wachovia's consumer portfolios. Over 40 percent of the increase in Wachovia consumer loan losses came from the non-impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolio, in large part reflecting the lagging effect of purchase accounting. "We are currently expecting lower life-of-loan losses on the non-impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolio than originally assumed at the time of the merger," said Loughlin. Overall losses on legacy Wells Fargo's consumer
 
portfolio were essentially flat linked quarter. "Given the actions we've previously taken to reduce higher-risk portfolios, given the life-of-loan loss write-downs we have taken through purchase accounting and given the substantially smaller exposure to credit cards and sub-prime loans, we are expecting consumer losses to potentially peak in the first half of 2010 and gradually decline as the year progresses.
"We remain comfortable with our original loss estimates for the impaired portfolio from Wachovia, and currently expect life-of-loan losses on the purchased credit-impaired (PCI) Pick-a-Pay portfolio to be lower than original estimates. Also, while increasing this year, losses in the non-impaired Pick-a-Pay portion of the Wachovia portfolio are tracking below our original estimates at the time we acquired Wachovia. We continue to expect the non-impaired portfolios to perform significantly better than the impaired portfolios that have already been written down through purchase accounting, and the Pick-a-Pay portfolio to perform better than other companies' option adjustable-rate mortgage portfolios."
Nonperforming assets
Total nonperforming assets (NPAs) were $23.5 billion (2.93 percent of total loans) at September 30, 2009, and included $20.9 billion of nonaccrual loans and $2.5 billion of foreclosed assets (repossessed real estate and vehicles).
Nonaccrual Loans and Other Nonperforming Assets
While commercial and commercial real estate nonaccrual loans were up in the quarter, the dollar amount of the increase declined in the quarter and the rate of growth slowed considerably. Legacy Wells Fargo's commercial and commercial real estate nonaccrual loans increased $777 million. The rate of growth in
 
Wachovia's commercial and commercial real estate nonaccrual loans reflected some deterioration but was in line with management's expectations.
Similarly, the growth rate in consumer nonaccrual loans also slowed in the quarter. Legacy Wells Fargo's consumer nonaccrual loans increased $606 million, about 11 percent, reflecting the more moderate deterioration the Company has experienced in consumer loans. Wachovia's Pick-a-Pay portfolio represents the largest portion of consumer nonaccrual loans. While up $1.2 billion in the third quarter, the increase in nonaccrual loans in the non-impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolio reflected the inflows to nonaccruals expected in the first few quarters after purchase accounting write-downs. The Company continued to actively modify non-PCI Pick-a-Pay loans through the use of troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), which temporarily keeps NPA levels elevated until the modified loans can demonstrate performance. To the extent these nonperforming loans return to accrual status, NPA growth should moderate.
The loss exposure expected in the nonperforming assets is significantly mitigated by three factors. First, 96 percent of our nonperforming loans (NPLs) are secured. Second, losses have already been recognized on 36 percent of the total. Residential real estate NPLs greater than 180 days old, or 41 percent of the total NPLs balance, have been written down to net realizable value. Third, there is a segment of NPLs for which there are specific reserves in the allowance, while other NPLs are covered by general reserves. "We believe that the allowance as of September 30, 2009, fully covers loss content embedded in the September 30, 2009 nonaccrual balances," said Loughlin.
(1) (Excluding Insured/Guaranteed GNMA and Similar Loans)
Loans 90 Days or More Past Due and Still Accruing
Includes Wells Fargo and Wachovia
 
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing totaled $18.9 billion at September 30, 2009, and $16.7 billion at June 30, 2009. For the same periods, the totals included $12.9 billion and $10.7 billion,
 
respectively, in advances pursuant to the Company's servicing agreement to Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) mortgage pools and similar loans whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Allowance for Credit Losses
(Includes Wells Fargo and, beginning December 31, 2008, Wachovia)
The allowance for credit losses, including the reserve for unfunded commitments, totaled $24.5 billion at September 30, 2009, compared with $23.5 billion at June 30, 2009. The credit reserve is driven by management's estimate of inherent losses in the loan portfolio at September 30, 2009. Of the $1.0 billion reserve increase in the third quarter, approximately $900 million reflected continued deterioration in the commercial portfolios. "We continued to see a decline in the quality of our performing commercial and commercial real estate portfolio as well as an increase in the amount of life-of-loan reserves taken on large commercial loans where we believe it is probable that we will not collect all amounts due," said Loughlin.
The remaining $100 million increase in the reserve relates mostly to the consumer loan portfolio and is principally due to the increasing level of residential real estate loan modifications classified as TDRs. The increased modifications this quarter resulted in an increase in the allowance of approximately $400 million compared with approximately $265 million last quarter. This increase was offset by approximately $345 million release in reserves related to performing consumer loans. "Based on our expectation that consumer related losses will peak in the first half of 2010 and then begin to gradually decline, the allowance required for performing consumer loans has decreased when compared to the allowance at the end of the second quarter 2009," said Loughlin.
The allowance coverage to total loans increased to 3.07 percent compared with 2.86 percent at June 30, 2009. The allowance coverage to NPLs was 118 percent as of September 30, 2009. "We believe the allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at September 30, 2009, including both performing and nonperforming loans," said Loughlin.
Credit Summary
"We are two years into the most difficult credit cycle in recent memory," said Loughlin. "Economic challenges continue and we expect that credit costs will remain elevated in the fourth quarter. However, based on portfolio trends and our current economic outlook, and assuming no unexpected further deterioration in the economy, we believe consumer loan losses will peak in the first half of 2010 then gradually decline, while commercial and commercial real estate loan losses will peak in the second half of 2010 and then gradually decline. We expect nonperforming assets to continue to increase in the near term, but at a slower pace as credit deterioration slows. NPAs are expected to remain elevated through 2010. We are working closely with customers who are having difficulties to understand their challenges, identify possible solutions and minimize loss. We believe our experienced and stable management team is well equipped to navigate through the end of this cycle."
For additional detail on credit quality and trends, please refer to the quarterly supplement.
 
Business Segment Performance
Wells Fargo defines its operating segments by product type and customer segment. Segment net income for each of the three business segments was:
More financial information about the business segments is on pages 39 and 40.
Community Banking
offers a complete line of diversified financial products and services for consumers and small businesses including investment, insurance and trust services in 39 states and D.C., and mortgage and home equity loans in all 50 states and D.C.
Selected Financial Information
Community Banking reported net income of $2.7 billion, up $659 million, or 131 percent (annualized), from second quarter. Revenue increased $336 million, or 9 percent (annualized), driven by strong regional banking and mortgage fee income partially offset by a decrease in net interest margin. Noninterest income increased $420 million, or 28 percent (annualized), from prior quarter driven by continued strength in mortgage banking and strong growth in deposit service charges and card fees. Noninterest expense decreased $863 million, or 45 percent (annualized), driven by higher second quarter FDIC deposit insurance assessments as well as expense reductions due to Wachovia merger-related cost saves. The provision for credit losses increased $308 million, and included a $236 million credit reserve build compared with a $479 million credit reserve build in the prior quarter.
Regional Banking Highlights for Legacy Wells Fargo
 
Regional Banking Highlights for Wachovia
Combined Regional Banking
Online Banking
Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (Home Mortgage)
 
Wholesale Banking
provides financial solutions to businesses across the United States with annual sales generally in excess of $10 million and financial institutions globally. Products include middle market banking, corporate banking, commercial real estate, treasury management, asset-based lending, insurance brokerage, foreign exchange, correspondent banking, trade services, specialized lending, equipment finance, corporate trust, investment banking, capital markets and asset management.
Selected Financial Information
Wholesale Banking reported net income of $598 million compared with $1.07 billion in second quarter 2009. Revenue decreased $322 million, primarily due to strength in investment banking and capital markets revenue in the prior quarter, as well as insurance revenue seasonality. Average core deposits were $147 billion up 25 percent (annualized) from the prior quarter. Noninterest expense decreased $177 million, primarily due to lower FDIC deposit insurance assessments. The provision for credit losses was $1.36 billion, an increase of $623 million from the prior quarter, and included $627 million of additional provision recorded to build reserves for the wholesale portfolio, compared with a credit reserve build of $162 million in the prior quarter.
 
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement
provides a full range of financial advisory services to clients using a comprehensive planning approach to meet each client's needs. Wealth Management provides affluent and high net worth clients with a complete range of wealth management solutions including financial planning, private banking, credit, investment management and trust. Family Wealth meets the unique needs of the ultra high net worth customers. Retail Brokerage's financial advisors serve customers' advisory, brokerage and financial needs as part of one of the largest full-service brokerage firms in the U.S. Retirement provides retirement services for individual investors and is a national leader in
401(k)
and pension record keeping.
Selected Financial Information
Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement reported net income of $244 million, compared with $363 million in the prior quarter. Revenue was $3.0 billion consistent with the prior quarter's levels as the strong equity market recovery led to increases in client assets across the brokerage, wealth and retirement businesses, driving solid revenue growth, partially offset by lower realized gains on sales of securities available for sale in the brokerage business. Total provision for credit losses increased $119 million from the prior quarter, largely reflecting a credit reserve build of $137 million in third quarter due to higher loss rates. Average core deposits increased $2.9 billion, or 10 percent (annualized), from second quarter, reflecting continued success in attracting client assets, including deposits.
Retail Brokerage
Wealth Management
Retirement
 
Recorded Message
A recorded message reviewing Wells Fargo's results is available at 5:30 a.m. Pacific Time through October 24, 2009. Dial 866-416-0522 (domestic) or 706-902-3479 (international). No password is required. The call is also available online at .
wellsfargo.com/invest_relations/earnings
In accordance with the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution you that this news release contains forward-looking statements about our future financial performance and business. We make forward-looking statements when we use words such as "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "should," "may," "can," "will," "outlook," "project" or similar expressions. Forward-looking statements in this news release include, among others, statements about: (i) future credit quality, the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, the level of nonperforming assets and nonaccrual loans, expected or estimated future losses in our loan portfolios and life-of-loan loss estimates, including that we currently expect that credit losses will peak in 2010, absent further deterioration in the economy, with consumer loan losses expected to peak in the first half of 2010 and commercial and commercial real estate loan losses expected to peak later in 2010, and that the pick-a-pay portfolios, both purchased credit-impaired and non-impaired, will perform better than management's expectations at the time of the Wachovia merger; (ii) reduction or mitigation of risk in our loan portfolios and the effects of loan modification programs; (iii) the amount and timing of expected integration activities, expenses and cost savings relating to the Wachovia merger, as well as the expected synergies and benefits of the merger, including that we currently estimate merger expenses of approximately $5.5 billion and that we currently are on track to achieve $5.0 billion annual run rate cost savings by the expected completion of the integration in 2011; (iv) the status of our capital requirements under the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program; and (v) our preliminary estimates to add assets to our consolidated financial statements upon the implementation of FAS 166 and FAS 167.
Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Information
Do not unduly rely on forward-looking statements as actual results could differ materially from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes or events that occur after that date. Several factors could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations including: current and future economic and market conditions, including the effects of further declines in housing prices and high unemployment rates; our capital requirements and our ability to generate capital internally or raise capital on favorable terms; the terms of capital investments or other financial assistance provided by the U.S. government; legislative proposals to allow mortgage cram-downs in bankruptcy or force other loan modifications; the extent of success in our loan modification efforts; our ability to successfully and timely integrate the Wachovia merger and realize the expected cost savings and other benefits, including delays or disruptions in system conversions and higher severance costs; our ability to realize efficiency initiatives to lower expenses when and in the amount expected; recognition of other-than-temporary impairment on securities held in our available-for-sale portfolio; the effect of changes in interest rates on our net interest margin and our mortgage originations, mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held for sale; hedging gains or losses; disruptions in the capital markets and reduced investor demand for mortgage loans; our ability to sell more products to our customers; the effect of the economic recession on the demand for our products and services; the effect of fluctuations in stock market prices on fee income from our brokerage, asset and wealth management businesses; our election to provide support to our mutual funds for structured credit products they may hold; changes in the value of our venture capital investments; changes in our accounting policies or in accounting standards or in how accounting standards are to be applied, including the implementation of FAS 166 and FAS 167 and its effects on the consolidation of additional assets on our balance sheet; mergers and acquisitions; federal and state regulations; reputational damage from negative publicity, fines, penalties and other negative consequences from regulatory violations, the loss of checking and saving account deposits to other investments such as the stock market, and fiscal and monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. There is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses
 
will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets, housing prices, and unemployment do not stabilize or improve. Increases in loan charge-offs or in the allowance for credit losses and related provision expense could materially adversely affect our financial results and condition. There is no assurance that we will meet the SCAP capital requirement on the November 9, 2009, deadline established by the Federal Reserve Board. Although we exceeded the requirement at September 30, 2009, our common equity capital could fall between now and the deadline, causing us not to meet the requirement. Failure to meet the requirement could result in the issuance of equity securities or the conversion of preferred securities into common stock, resulting in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. There is no assurance as to when or how we will repay the government's investment or that we will be able to repay the investment in a manner that does not require the issuance of equity securities resulting in substantial dilution to existing stockholders. For more information about factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations, refer to our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 31, 2009, and June 30, 2009, and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, including the discussions under "Risk Factors" in each of those reports, as filed with the SEC and available on the SEC's website at . Any factor described above or in our SEC reports could, by itself or together with one or more other factors, adversely affect our financial results and condition.
www.sec.gov
About Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $1.2 trillion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through more than 10,000 stores, over 12,000 ATMs and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1) (2)
SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1) (2)
FIVE QUARTER SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)(2)
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)(2)
AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS)
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
NONINTEREST INCOME
 
NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST INCOME
 
FIVE QUARTER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER AVERAGE BALANCES
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER LOANS
 
FIVE QUARTER NONACCRUAL LOANS AND OTHER NONPERFORMING ASSETS
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
PURCHASED CREDIT-IMPAIRED (PCI) LOANS
Certain loans acquired from Wachovia have evidence of credit deterioration since origination and it is probable that we will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments (referred to as "purchased credit-impaired"(PCI) loans). Such loans are accounted for under ASC 310-30, (American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position 03-3, ). The accounting provisions contained in ASC 310-30 require acquired loans be recorded at fair value at the acquisition date and prohibits carryover of the related allowance for loan losses. The difference between contractually required payments and cash flows expected to be collected is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. The difference between the cash flows expected to be collected and the fair value is referred to as the accretable yield.
Receivables
Accounting for Certain Loans or Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer
Because PCI loans have been written down in purchase accounting to an amount estimated to be collectible, such loans are not classified as nonaccrual even though they may be contractually past due. Also, losses on such loans are charged against the nonaccretable difference established in purchase accounting and, as such, are not reported as charge-offs.
As a result of the application of ASC 310-30 to credit-impaired Wachovia loans, certain ratios of the combined company cannot be used to compare a portfolio that includes PCI loans against one that does not, or to compare ratios across quarters or years. The ratios particularly affected by the accounting under ASC 310-30 include the allowance for loan losses and allowance for credit losses as percentages of loans, of nonaccrual loans and of nonperforming assets; nonaccrual loans and nonperforming assets as a percentage of total loans; and net charge-offs as a percentage of loans.
     
 
 
CHANGES IN NONACCRETABLE DIFFERENCE FOR PCI LOANS
The nonaccretable difference was established in purchase accounting for PCI loans to absorb losses expected at that time on those loans. Amounts absorbed by the nonaccretable difference do not affect the income statement or the allowance for credit losses.
 
 
CHANGES IN ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES FOR PCI LOANS
Deterioration in expected credit losses for PCI loans subsequent to the acquisition on December 31, 2008, results the establishment of an allowance, provided for through a charge to income. Losses and improvements in expected losses will reduce the allowance.
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
PICK-A-PAY PORTFOLIO
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIOS
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
1
CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES (
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
1
FIVE QUARTER CHANGES IN THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES (
)
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
(1)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN TOTAL EQUITY
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
(1)
TIER 1 COMMON EQUITY
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries (1)
FIVE QUARTER OPERATING SEGMENT RESULTS
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
FIVE QUARTER CONSOLIDATED MORTGAGE SERVICING (CONTINUED)
 
 
 
Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries
SELECTED FIVE QUARTER RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PRODUCTION DATA
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


