FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20090102082626.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
  Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     
On December 31, 2008, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 3, 2008 (the "Merger Agreement") between Wells Fargo & Company ("Wells Fargo") and Wachovia Corporation ("Wachovia"), as amended, Wells Fargo and Wachovia completed the merger (the "Merger") in which Wachovia merged with and into Wells Fargo, with Wells Fargo as the surviving corporation.
     
Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, (i) each share of Wachovia common stock outstanding at the effective time of the Merger was converted into the right to receive 0.1991 of a share of Wells Fargo common stock, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares, (ii) (a) each Wachovia Dividend Equalization Preferred Share was converted into one-one thousandth of a Wells Fargo Dividend Equalization Preferred Share (the "Wells Fargo DEPs"), (b) each Wachovia Depositary Share representing a 1/40th interest in a share of 8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J of Wachovia was converted into one Wells Fargo Depositary Share representing a 1/40th interest in a share of 8.00% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series J of Wells Fargo (the "Wells Fargo Depositary Shares"), (c) each share of Wachovia Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series K was converte d into one share of Wells Fargo Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Class A Preferred Stock, Series K (the "Wells Fargo Series K Preferred Stock"), and (d) each share of Wachovia 7.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L was converted into one share of Wells Fargo 7.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Class A Preferred Stock, Series L (the "Wells Fargo Series L Preferred Stock"), and (iii) each option to purchase Wachovia common stock and other equity-based award of Wachovia then outstanding was converted into an option or other equity-based award for shares of Wells Fargo common stock.
     The Wells Fargo Depositary Shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE") under the ticker symbol "WFCPrJ" and have the CUSIP number 949746879. The Wells Fargo Series L Preferred Stock is listed on the NYSE under the ticker symbol "WFCPrL" and has the CUSIP number 949746804. The Wells Fargo Series K Preferred Stock and the Wells Fargo DEPs are not exchange-listed and have the CUSIP numbers 949746PM7 and 949746887, respectively.
     
On January 1, 2009, Wells Fargo issued a press release announcing the completion of the Merger, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
     
In connection with completion of the Merger, Wells Fargo, pursuant to supplemental indentures dated as of December 31, 2008, assumed all of the outstanding guarantee obligations of Wachovia Corporation with respect to the following trust preferred securities: the 5.80% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Normal Wachovia Income Trust Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust III, 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust IV, 6.375% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust IX and the 7.85% Trust Preferred Securities of Wachovia Capital Trust X (collectively, the "Wachovia Trust Preferred Securities"). The Wachovia Trust Preferred Securities (including the associated guarantee obligations) will continue to be listed on the NYSE under their existing ticker symbols. Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), the Wells Farg o guarantee obligations respecting the Wachovia Trust Preferred Securities are deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.
     
In connection with the Merger, Wells Fargo also assumed all of the outstanding obligations of Wachovia Corporation under the following securities formerly of Wachovia Corporation: Participating Index Notes (PINS) TEES Targeted Efficient Equity Securities Linked to the S&P 500
Index due August 19, 2009; ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Nikkei 225(R) Index Due March 2, 2010; ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to a Global Basket of Indices due February 2, 2010; ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Dow Jones Global Titans 50 Index due March 3, 2010; ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Global Equity Basket (Series 2005-2) due May 5, 2010; Exchangeable Notes Linked to the Common Stock of Three Oil Industry Companies due December 15 , 2010; and ASTROS (ASseT Return Obligation Securities) Linked to the Metals  China Basket due January 28, 2009 (Collectively, the "Wachovia Linked Securities"). The Wachovia Linked Securities will continue to be listed on the NYSE Alternext under their existing ticker symbols. Pursuant to Rule 12g-3(a) under the Exchange Act, the Wells Fargo obligations with respect to the Wachovia Linked Securities are deemed registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
     
Wells Fargo intends to file the financial statements of the business acquired under cover of Form 8-K/A no later than 71 calendar days after the date this Report was required to be filed.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
     
Wells Fargo intends to file pro forma financial information under cover of Form 8-K/A no later than 71 calendar days after the date this Report was required to be filed.
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 2, 2009                                                          WELLS FARGO & COMPANY                                                                                                    By:                                                                                                                           James M. Strother                                                                                                                   
/s/ James M. Strother                                           
Executive Vice President and General Counsel
 

Exhibit 99.1
SAN FRANCISCO, January 1 , 2009  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) said today it has completed its merger with Wachovia Corporation, effective December 31, 2008, creating North America's most extensive distribution system for financial services with 11,000 stores, 12,260 ATMs, wellsfargo.com and
Wells Fargo PhoneBank
SM
. Beginning today, Wells Fargo and Wachovia customers have free use of all of the company's combined ATMs.
Wells Fargo now has community banks in 39 states and the District of Columbia and is #1 in deposit market share in 18 of those states plus the District of Columbia.* It also is #1 in the U.S. in community banking presence (6,650 stores), small business lending, middle market commercial banking, agriculture lending, commercial real estate lending, commercial real estate brokerage, and bank-owned insurance brokerage. It is #2 in banking deposits in the U.S., home mortgage originations and servicing, retail
brokerage (number of financial advisors), and debit card. Wells Fargo serves 48 million banking households and is one of America's largest private employers with 276,000 team members.
"This merger creates what we believe will be a very compelling value proposition for our team members, customers, communities and shareholders with significant potential for even more market share growth," said Wells Fargo President and CEO John Stumpf. "Our team members can benefit from even more professional development opportunities across a much broader geography. Our customers can benefit from greater convenience and a better value for entrusting us with more of their business. Our communities can benefit because we want to be a leading contributor of financial, human and social capital in every community in which we do business. Our shareholders can benefit because of the exciting growth opportunities created by this merger. We're being very thoughtful and deliberate in our three-year merger integration. Just as we did with the very successful Norwest-Wells Fargo merger integration a decade ago, we'll take the time to do it right for our customers, always putting their interests first by seeking to satisfy all their financial needs and helping them succeed financially."
Pat Callahan, an executive vice president and head of the Company's merger transition, said Wachovia customers will continue to see the Wachovia brand in their banking stores and communities for the near future. "The key to a successful integration will be our ability to provide outstanding customer service throughout the integration," said Callahan. "So we're going to take our time and do this right. Wells Fargo and
Wachovia customers should continue banking as they do today  using the same bank accounts, payment coupons, online sign-on, credit cards, ATM cards and check cards, checks and banking stores. We're committed to keeping customers informed of all significant changes before they happen."
At closing, Wells Fargo acquired all outstanding shares of common stock of Wachovia in a stock-for-stock transaction. Wachovia shareholders received 0.1991 shares of Wells Fargo common stock in exchange for each share of Wachovia common stock they owned. Shares of each outstanding series of Wachovia preferred stock were converted into shares (or fractional shares) of a corresponding series Wells Fargo preferred stock having substantially the same rights and preferences. As a result of the transaction, Wells Fargo acquired all of Wachovia Corporation and its businesses and obligations, including all of its banking deposits.
With Wachovia, Wells Fargo for the first time has a Community Banking presence in Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Maryland, Mississippi, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and Washington D.C.
Wachovia's stock symbol "WB" was retired effective December 31, 2008. Wells Fargo stock trades under the symbol WFC. For more information about the merger, visit www.wellsfargo.com.
Wells Fargo & Company is a diversified financial services company with $1.4 trillion in assets, providing banking, insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer finance through almost 11,000 stores and the internet (wellsfargo.com) across North America and internationally. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. has the highest possible credit rating, "Aaa," from Moody's Investors Service and the highest credit rating given to a U.S. bank, "AA+," from Standard & Poor's Ratings Services.
* Deposit data as of June 30, 2008 (pro forma for acquisitions; excludes deposits greater than $500mm in a single banking store.)


