FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20101027183747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2010, Wells Fargo & Company issued a press release regarding its foreclosure affidavits and mortgage securitizations. The press release is included as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99
 
DES MOINES, October 27, 2010  Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) is continuing its ongoing efforts to monitor and assess its foreclosure affidavit procedures. "We understand the concern over foreclosure procedures on the part of homeowners in these difficult economic times, and want to do everything we can to assure that the procedures we have in place provide Wells Fargo borrowers and others with confidence that foreclosure proceedings we initiate are done appropriately," said Mike Heid, co-president of Wells Fargo Home Mortgage.
The company believes it has designed an appropriate process for the generation of foreclosure affidavits. Completed foreclosure affidavits that are submitted to the courts are signed and notarized as one of the last steps in a multi-step process intended to comply with applicable law and ensure the quality of customer and loan data in foreclosure proceedings. This customer and loan data is derived directly from the company's official systems of record. This data and its transmission to external foreclosure counsel are subject to quality controls, and audits are performed to assure the quality, accuracy, and reliability of these automated systems.
As part of the company's review of its foreclosure affidavit procedures, the company has identified instances where a final step in its processes relating to the execution of the foreclosure affidavits (including a final review of the affidavit, as well as some aspects of the notarization process) did not strictly adhere to the required procedures. The issues the company has identified do not relate in any way to the quality of the customer and loan data; nor does the company believe that any of these instances led to foreclosures which should not have otherwise occurred.
 
Out of an abundance of caution and to provide an additional level of assurance regarding its processes, the company is electing to submit supplemental affidavits for approximately 55,000 foreclosures which are pending before courts in 23 judicial foreclosure states. The process of submitting supplemental affidavits will begin immediately with a goal of having this process completed by mid-November 2010, subject to state and local requirements. If the company is unable to complete an individual court filing by the designated court review date, it will request a court extension to assure the file contains a supplemental affidavit before the judge rules on the case. Additionally, Wells Fargo reaffirms that it does not plan to institute a moratorium on foreclosure sales.
"At Wells Fargo, foreclosure is a last resort," Heid said. "In September 2010, borrowers who have completed foreclosure were on average 16 months delinquent on their payments. When all options have been exhausted, we believe foreclosures should not be delayed."
From January 2009 through September 30, 2010, Wells Fargo has successfully completed 556,868 mortgage loan modifications, which includes $3.5 billion of principal forgiveness, and has refinanced approximately 1.9 million mortgage loans.
The company also affirmed that appropriate documents for loans in foreclosure are assigned in compliance with local laws and investor requirements; legal documents related to securitizations appropriately transferred ownership; and its $1.3 billion reserve continues to represent its best estimate of its repurchase liabilities as of September 30, 2010. These matters are not affected by the affidavit issues referenced above.
Separately, the company included as part of its 2010 third-quarter Quarterly Supplement the following information (except as noted, data below is as of third-quarter 2010):
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement About Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements about our future financial performance and business, including, among others, statements about our foreclosure procedures and practices, and our reserve for mortgage repurchase liabilities at September 30, 2010. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and we do not undertake to update them. Actual results may vary materially from the expectations described in this news release. For a description of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations, please refer to our reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at
www.sec.gov
About Wells Fargo
Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE: WFC) is a nationwide, diversified, community-based financial services company with $1.2 trillion in assets. Founded in 1852 and headquartered in San Francisco, Wells Fargo provides banking, insurance, investments, mortgage, and consumer and commercial finance through more than 10,000 stores, 12,000 ATMs, the Internet (wellsfargo.com and wachovia.com), and other distribution channels across North America and internationally. With more than 278,000 team members, Wells Fargo serves one in three households in America. Wells Fargo & Company was ranked #19 on Fortune's 2009 rankings of America's largest corporations. Wells Fargo's vision is to satisfy all our customers' financial needs and help them succeed financially.


