FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20100625164442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 22, 2010, the Human Resources Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") granted to each of John G. Stumpf, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Howard I. Atkins, Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, David M. Carroll, Senior Executive Vice President and head of Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement Services, David A. Hoyt, Senior Executive Vice President and head of Wholesale Banking, and Mark C. Oman, Senior Executive Vice President and head of Home and Consumer Finance, Performance Shares under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (LTICP), based on the achievement of specified performance criteria and subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions summarized below. The awards provide an incentive for these executives to remain with and provide valuable leadership and services to the Company. The awards will vest after three years of service in the third quarter of 2013, with the target number of Performance Shares for each executive subject to adjustment upward or downward based on the Company's performance over the three-year period ending June 30, 2013 with respect to specified performance criteria relative to specified financial performance peer group companies as of June 30, 2013. In no event will the final number of Performance Shares received by each of the executives be greater than 150% of the executive's applicable target award number, plus any applicable dividend equivalents as described below.
The following table shows the target number of Performance Shares granted to each of the executives named below:
 
Each of the executives will forfeit the Performance Shares if he terminates his employment with the Company prior to the vesting date for the Performance Shares, other than because of his death, involuntary termination in connection with a disability or retirement. Upon the executive's retirement prior to the vesting date for the Performance Shares, the award will vest upon the scheduled vesting date based on the Company's performance and provided the executive meets certain vesting conditions following termination of employment through such vesting date. Those vesting conditions are complying with the terms of an agreement with the Company regarding non-disclosure of trade secrets and other confidential information and the non-solicitation of team members and customers.
The Committee required as a condition to receiving the awards, that each of the executives agree to hold, while employed by the Company and for at least one year after retirement, shares of Company common stock equal to at least 50% of the after-tax shares (assuming a 50% tax rate) acquired upon vesting and settlement of the Performance Shares. The Committee may reduce, delay vesting, modify, revoke, cancel, impose additional conditions and restrictions on or recover all or a portion of the awards if the Committee deems it necessary or advisable to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. In addition, the awards are subject to any applicable recoupment or "clawback" policies of the Company, as amended from time to time, and any applicable recoupment or clawback requirements imposed under laws, rules and regulations. The Performance Shares include the right to receive dividend equivalents to be reinvested in Company common stock in the form of additional Performance Shares. The additional Performance Shares will be distributed in shares of Company common stock when, and if, the underlying Performance Shares vest and are distributed.
For more information about the grant terms, refer to the form of Performance Share Award Agreement filed as Exhibit 10(a) to this report and incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the terms and conditions of the Performance Share grants is qualified in its entirety by reference to such exhibit.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10(a)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
[Electronic acceptance language]
PLEASE NOTE: Receipt of this Award is subject to your electronic signature on the current plan administrator's website acknowledging and accepting all the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement and the Plan. You must accept the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement on or before August 2, 2010. Failure to do so within this time period will result in forfeiture of this Award.
By clicking the "Accept" button below, you agree that this is your electronic signature expressly acknowledging that (i) you agree to accept the Award subject to the terms and conditions of the Award Agreement and the Plan, and (ii) without limiting the generality of (i) above, you have read, understand, and agree to comply with the terms of the Wells Fargo Agreement Regarding Trade Secrets, Confidential Information, and Non-Solicitation that follows this Award Agreement and is incorporated by reference herein.
This Exhibit A sets forth the manner in which the Final Award Number will be determined.
Definitions
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein (including, but not limited to, Return on Realized Common Equity) shall have the same meanings assigned to them in the Plan and the Award Agreement. In addition, the following terms used in the text of this Exhibit A shall have the meanings set forth below:
"Average Return on Realized Common Equity" means for each of the Financial Performance Group Companies the sum of such company's Return on Realized Common Equity for each of the 12-month periods ending June 30, 2011, 2012 and 2013, which sum is then divided by three.
"Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking" means the rank of the Company's Average Return on Realized Common Equity relative to the Average Return on Realized Common Equity achieved by each of the other Financial Performance Group Companies. An illustration of the determination of Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is set forth on the attached Illustration I.
"Final Award Number Percentage" means the "Final Award Number Percentage" determined in accordance with the Determination of Final Award Number section of this Exhibit A.
"Financial Performance Group Companies" means, in addition to the Company, the companies listed below provided that any such company for which financial data as of June 30, 2013, is not publicly available shall be eliminated as a Financial Performance Group Company.
Bank of America Corporation
BB&T Corporation
Capital One Corporation
Citigroup Inc.
Fifth Third Bancorp
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
KeyCorp
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
Regions Financial Corporation
SunTrust Banks, Inc.
U.S. Bancorp
Determination of Final Award Number
Your Target Award Number will be adjusted upward or downward depending on the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking in accordance with the chart below to arrive at your Final Award Number of Performance Shares. The Final Award Number of Performance Shares will be determined by multiplying (i) the Final Award Number Percentage by (ii) your Target Award Number and then adding to such product additional Performance Shares granted with respect to dividend equivalents as provided in paragraph 4. In the event the Final Award Number is not a whole number, then the Final Award Number shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number.
 
If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is between 50% and 75%, the Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between 100% and 150% and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a corresponding straight-line basis between 100% and 150% of the Target Award Number.
If the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is between 25% and 50%, the Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between 50% and 100% and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a corresponding straight-line basis between 50% and 100% of the Target Award Number.
If the Company does not have the lowest Average Return on Realized Common Equity among the Financial Performance Group Companies and the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is less than 25%, the Final Award Number Percentage shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between 0% and 50% and the Final Award Number of Performance Shares shall be interpolated on a straight-line basis between 0% and 50% of the Target Award Number.
In no event shall the Final Award Number Percentage be greater than 150% nor shall the Final Award Number of Performance Shares be greater than 150% of the Target Award Number (plus dividend equivalents pursuant to paragraph 4 of the Award Agreement).
Committee Determination
The Committee shall determine the Final Award Number of Performance Shares after June 30, 2013 and not later than September 1, 2013 and the date the Committee makes such determination is referred to in this Award as the "Determination Date." The Committee shall make all determinations in calculating the Final Award Number of Performance Shares and the Committee's determination shall be binding.
Assume:
Company's Average Return on Realized Common Equity = x + 2%
[Assumes Company's Return on Realized Common Equity from 7/01/2010-6/30/2011 = x; 7/01/20116/30/2012 = x + 2%; and 7/01/2012-6/30/2013 = x + 4% so = x + 2%]
3x + 6%
               3
12 companies in comparison group on 6/30/2013, including the Company
Award recipients employed for the entire three-year vesting period
Average Return on Realized Common Equity of each of Financial Performance Group Companies
 
In this example, the Company's Average Return on Realized Common Equity is 8
th
highest out of 12 companies; therefore the Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking is 8/12 or 66.66%.
Because 66.66% is between the 50% and the 75% Company Return on Realized Common Equity Ranking, the Final Award Number Percentage is interpolated between 100% and 150%, resulting in a Final Award Number Percentage of 133.33%. The Final Award Number of Performance Shares that will be distributed is the Target Award Number multiplied by 133.33%, plus additional shares representing reinvested dividend equivalents on 133.33% of the Target Award Number of Performance Shares.
Return on Realized Common Equity numbers are set forth for illustrative purposes only.
I. Introduction
In consideration for the Performance Share Award granted to me by Wells Fargo & Company on June 22, 2010, on the terms and conditions contained in the Performance Share Award Agreement ("Performance Share Award Agreement"), I acknowledge that the nature of my employment with and performance of services for Wells Fargo & Company and its affiliates (the "Company") permits me to have access to certain of its trade secrets and confidential and proprietary information and that such information is, and shall always remain, the sole property of the Company. Any unauthorized disclosure or use of this information would be wrongful and would cause the Company irreparable harm. Therefore, I agree as follows:
II. Trade Secrets and Confidential Information
During the course of my employment I have acquired knowledge of the Company's Trade Secrets and other proprietary information relating to its business, business methods, personnel, and customers (collectively referenced as "Confidential Information"). "Trade Secrets" are defined as information, including but not limited to, a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) derives independent economic value, actual or potential, from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use and (2) is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy. The Company's Trade Secrets include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
I understand that Records of the Company also constitute Confidential Information and that my obligation to maintain the confidentiality thereof continues at all times during and after my employment. "Records" include, but are not limited to, original, duplicated, computerized, memorized, handwritten or any other form of information, whether contained in materials provided to me by the Company, or by any institution acquired by the Company, or compiled by me in any form or manner including information in documents or electronic devices, such as software, flowcharts, graphs, spreadsheets, resource manuals, videotapes, calendars, day timers, planners, rolodexes, or telephone directories maintained in personal computers, laptop computers, personal digital assistants or any other device. These records do not become any less confidential or proprietary to the Company because I may commit some of them to memory or because I may otherwise maintain them outside of the Company's offices.
I agree that Confidential Information of the Company is to be used by me solely and exclusively for the purpose of conducting business on behalf of the Company. I am expected to keep such Confidential Information confidential and not to divulge or disclose this information except for that purpose. Upon my retirement, I agree to immediately return to the Company all Records and Confidential Information, including information maintained by me in my office, personal electronic devices, and/or at home.
III. Non-Solicitation of Company's Employees and Customers
I agree that for the period beginning on my retirement date with the Company through the Determination Date as defined in the Performance Share Award Agreement ("the Non-Solicitation Period"), I will not do any of the following, either directly or indirectly or through associates, agents, or employees:
 
 
This limitation is not intended to limit the Company's right to prevent misappropriation of its Confidential Information beyond the Non-Solicitation Period.
IV. Partial Invalidity
If any provision of this Agreement is held to be unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be enforced to the greatest extent permitted and the remainder of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
V. Choice of Law/Integration/Survival
This Agreement and any dispute, controversy or claim which arises under or relates in any way to it shall be governed by the law of the state where the incident(s) giving rise to the dispute or claim arose. This Agreement supersedes any prior written or verbal agreements pertaining to the subject matter herein, and is intended to be a final expression of our Agreement with respect only to the terms contained herein. There may be no modification of this Agreement except in writing signed by me and an executive officer of the Company. This Agreement shall survive my employment by the Company, inure to the benefit of successors and assigns of the Company, and is binding upon my heirs and legal representatives.


