FILE:WFC/WFC-8K-20100205141333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibits are filed herewith in connection with the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-159736) filed by Wells Fargo & Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
On February 5, 2010, Wells Fargo & Company issued its Notes Linked to the S&P 500 Index due February 6, 2015 (the "Notes").
The purpose of this Current Report is to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the form of the Note related to such issuance, the Opinion of Mary E. Schaffner, Esq. regarding the Notes and the opinion of Sullivan & Cromwell LLP, Wells Fargo & Company's special tax counsel, regarding the Notes.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 5, 2010
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
WELLS FARGO & COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "," which term includes any successor corporation under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & Co., or registered assigns, an amount equal to the Maturity Payment Amount (as defined below), in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts, on the Stated Maturity Date. The "" shall be February 6, 2015. If no Market Disruption Event (as defined below) occurs or is continuing on the scheduled Valuation Date (as defined below), the Initial Stated Maturity Date will be the "." If a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on the scheduled Valuation Date, the "" shall be the later of (i) three Business Days (as defined below) after the postponed Valuation Date and (ii) the Initial Stated Maturity Date. This Security shall not bear any interest.
Company
Initial Stated Maturity Date
Stated Maturity Date
Stated Maturity Date
Any payments on this Security at Maturity will be made against presentation of this Security at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota and at any other office or agency maintained by the Company for such purpose.
Determination of Maturity Payment Amount
"" shall mean, for each $1,000 Face Amount of this Security:
Maturity Payment Amount
 
 
 
 
 
Initial Index Level
"" shall mean, for each $1,000 Face Amount of this Security, an amount equal to the product of:
Additional Amount
 
 
 
Initial Index Level
The "" is 1073.87.
Initial Index Level
The "" shall be equal to Closing Level of the Index on the Valuation Date.
Final Index Level
"" shall mean the S&P 500 Index.
Index
"" shall mean a day, other than a Saturday or Sunday, that is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York or Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Business Day
"" shall mean the Calculation Agency Agreement dated as of February 5, 2010 between the Company and the Calculation Agent, as amended from time to time.
Calculation Agency Agreement
"" shall mean the Person that has entered into the Calculation Agency Agreement with the Company providing for, among other things, the determination of the Final Index Level, the Additional Amount, if any, and the Maturity Payment Amount, which term shall, unless the context otherwise requires, include its successors under such Calculation Agency Agreement. The initial Calculation Agent shall be Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. Pursuant to the Calculation Agency Agreement, the Company may appoint a different
Calculation Agent
 
Calculation Agent from time to time after the initial issuance of the Securities of this series without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series and without notifying the Holders of the Securities of this series.
The "" of the Index on any Trading Day shall mean the closing level of the Index as reported by the Index Sponsor (or of any successor index, as reported by the index sponsor of that successor index) on such Trading Day or as determined by the Calculation Agent as described in "Discontinuance of the Index; Alteration Of Method Of Calculation."
Closing Level
"" shall mean, when used with respect to any Security or Securities of this series, the amount set forth on the face of such Security or Securities as its or their "Face Amount."
Face Amount
"" shall mean Standard & Poor's, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Index Sponsor
A "" with respect to the Index will occur on any day if the Calculation Agent determines, in its sole discretion, any of the following:
Market Disruption Event
 
 
 
 
 
For purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred:
 
 
A "" is a day on which The New York Stock Exchange, The Nasdaq Stock Market and the American Stock Exchange, or any successor thereto, are open for trading during their regular trading sessions.
Trading Day
The "" shall be the last Trading Day of January 2015. If the Calculation Agent determines that a Market Disruption Event has occurred or is continuing on the scheduled Valuation Date, the Valuation Date will be postponed to the first succeeding Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event. If the Valuation Date has been postponed for eight Business Days after the scheduled Valuation Date and such eighth Business Day is not a Trading Day, or if a Market Disruption Event occurs or is continuing on such eighth Business Day, the Calculation Agent will determine the Closing Level of the Index on such eighth Business Day in accordance with the formula for and method of calculating the Closing Level of the Index last in effect prior to commencement of the Market Disruption Event, using the closing price (or, if trading in the relevant securities has been materially suspended or materially limited, its good faith estimate of the closing price that would have prevailed but for such suspension or limitation or non-Trading Day) on such date of each security most recently included in the Index. Any such postponement of the date that would otherwise be the scheduled Valuation Date will cause the Stated Maturity Date to be postponed until three Business Days after the Valuation Date if such third Business Day is after the Initial Stated Maturity Date.
Valuation Date
 
Discontinuance Of The Index; Alteration Of Method Of Calculation
If the Index Sponsor discontinues publication of the Index and the Index Sponsor or another entity publishes a successor or substitute index that the Calculation Agent determines, in its sole discretion, to be comparable to the discontinued Index, then any subsequent Closing Level of the Index will be determined by reference to the level of such successor index or substitute index (in any such case, referred to herein as a "") at 4:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date that any such subsequent Closing Level of the Index is to be determined.
successor index
Upon any selection by the Calculation Agent of a successor index, the Company will promptly give notice to the Holders of the Securities of this series.
If the Index Sponsor discontinues publication of the Index prior to, and such discontinuance is continuing on, the date that any Closing Level of the Index is to be determined and the Calculation Agent determines that no successor index is available at such time, then, on such date, the Calculation Agent will determine the Closing Level to be used in computing the amount payable at stated maturity. Such Closing Level will be computed by the Calculation Agent in accordance with the formula for and method of calculating the Index last in effect prior to such discontinuance, using the closing price (or, if trading in the relevant security has been materially suspended or materially limited, its good faith estimate of the closing price that would have prevailed but for such suspension or limitation) at the close of the principal trading session on such date of each security most recently comprising the Index on the primary organized exchange or trading system. As used herein, "" means, with respect to any security on any date, the last reported sales price regular way on such date or, in case no such reported sale takes place on such date, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices regular way on such date, in either case on the primary organized exchange or trading system on which such security is then listed or admitted to trading.
closing price
If a successor index is selected or the Calculation Agent calculates a Closing Level as a substitute for the Index, such successor index or Closing Level will be used as a substitute for the Index for all purposes, including for purposes of determining whether a Market Disruption Event exists.
If at any time the method of calculating the Index or a successor index, or the Closing Level thereof, is changed in a material respect, or if the Index or a successor index is in any other way modified so that such Index does not, in the opinion of the Calculation Agent, fairly represent the value of the Index or such successor index had such changes or modifications not been made, then the Calculation Agent will, at the close of business in New York City on the date that any Closing Level is to be determined, make such calculations and adjustments as, in the good faith judgment of the Calculation Agent, may be necessary in order to arrive at a value of a stock index comparable to the Index or such successor index, as the case may be, as if such changes or modifications had not been made. The Calculation Agent will calculate the Closing Level of the Index and the amount payable at stated maturity with reference to the Index or such successor index, as adjusted. Accordingly, if the method of calculating the Index or a successor index is modified so that the level of such index is a fraction of what it would have been if it had
 
not been modified (for example, due to a split in the index), then the Calculation Agent will adjust such index in order to arrive at a level of the Index or such successor index as if it had not been modified (for example, as if such split had not occurred).
Calculation Agent
The Calculation Agent will determine the Maturity Payment Amount. In addition, the Calculation Agent will (i) determine if adjustments are required to the Closing Level of the Index under the circumstances described in this Security, (ii) if publication of the Index is discontinued, select a successor index or, if no successor index is available, determine the Closing Level under the circumstances described in this Security and (iii) determine whether a Market Disruption Event has occurred.
The Company covenants that, so long as any of the Securities of this series are Outstanding, there shall at all times be a Calculation Agent (which shall be a broker-dealer, bank or other financial institution) with respect to the Securities of this series.
All determinations made by the Calculation Agent with respect to the Securities of this series will be at the sole discretion of the Calculation Agent and, in the absence of manifest error, will be conclusive for all purposes and binding on the Company and the Holders of the Securities of this series. All percentages and other amounts resulting from any calculation with respect to the Securities of this series will be rounded at the Calculation Agent's discretion.
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature or its duly authorized agent under the Indenture referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
DATED:
 
[SEAL]
 
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of July 21, 1999, as amended or supplemented from time to time (herein called the ""), between the Company and Citibank, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate Face Amount to $            ; , that the Company may, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of this series, issue additional Securities with the same terms as the Securities of this series, and such additional Securities shall be considered part of the same series under the Indenture as the Securities of this series.
Indenture
Trustee
provided, however
The Securities of this series are not subject to redemption at the option of the Company or repayment at the option of the Holder hereof prior to February 6, 2015. The Securities will not be entitled to any sinking fund.
The Company agrees, to the extent permitted by law, not to voluntarily claim the benefits of any laws concerning usurious rates of interest against a Holder of Securities of this series.
If an Event of Default, as defined in the Indenture, with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the Maturity Payment Amount (calculated as set forth in the next sentence) of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. The amount payable to the Holder hereof upon any acceleration permitted under the Indenture will be equal to the Maturity Payment Amount hereof calculated as though the date of acceleration was the Valuation Date; provided, however, if such date is not a Trading Day or if a Market Disruption Event has occurred or is continuing on that day, the next Trading Day on which there is not a Market Disruption Event will be deemed to be the Valuation Date. Upon payment of the amount so declared due and payable, all of the Company's obligations in respect of payment of the Maturity Payment Amount shall terminate. The Securities of this series will not bear a default rate of interest after the occurrence of an Event of Default or an acceleration under the Indenture.
The Company agrees, and by acceptance of a beneficial ownership interest in this Security each beneficial owner of this Security will be deemed to have agreed (in the absence of a statutory,
 
regulatory, administrative or judicial ruling to the contrary), for United States federal income tax purposes to characterize and treat this Security as a pre-paid cash-settled forward contract in respect of the Index.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of all series to be affected, acting together. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of all series at the time Outstanding affected by certain provisions of the Indenture, acting together, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with those provisions of the Indenture. Certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences may be waived under the Indenture by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series. Solely for the purpose of determining whether any consent, waiver, notice or other action or Act to be taken or given by the Holders of Securities pursuant to the Indenture has been given or taken by the Holders of Outstanding Securities in the requisite aggregate principal amount, the principal amount of this Security will be deemed to be equal to the amount set forth on the face hereof as the "Face Amount" hereof. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
Section 403 and Article Fifteen of the Indenture and the provisions of clause (ii) of Section 401(1)(B) of the Indenture, relating to defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and certain Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, shall not apply to this Security. The remaining provisions of Section 401 of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
Article Sixteen of the Indenture shall not apply to this Security.
Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of this Security at the office or agency of the Company in the City of Minneapolis, Minnesota, a new Security or Securities of this series in authorized denominations for an equal aggregate Face Amount will be issued to the transferee in exchange herefor, as provided in the Indenture and subject to the limitations provided therein and to the limitations described below, without charge except for any tax or other governmental charge imposed in connection therewith.
This Security is exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form only if (x) the Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Security or if at any time the Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and a successor depositary is not appointed within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, (y) the Company in its sole discretion determines that this Security shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form and notifies the Trustee thereof or (z) an Event of Default with respect to the Securities represented hereby has occurred and is continuing. If this Security is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence, it shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities in registered form, having the same terms and of authorized denominations aggregating a like amount.
 
This Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor of the Depositary or a nominee of such successor. Except as provided above, owners of beneficial interests in this Security will not be entitled to receive physical delivery of Securities in definitive form and will not be considered the Holders hereof for any purpose under the Indenture.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the Maturity Payment Amount at the times and place, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed, except as otherwise provided in this Security.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
No recourse shall be had for the payment of the Maturity Payment Amount, or for any claim based on this Security, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issuance hereof, expressly waived and released.
All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture unless otherwise defined in this Security.
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
 
The following abbreviations, when used in the inscription on the face of this instrument, shall be construed as though they were written out in full according to applicable laws or regulations:
 
 
 
Additional abbreviations may also be used though not in the above list.
the undersigned hereby sell(s) and transfer(s) unto
FOR VALUE RECEIVED,
Please Insert Social Security or
Other Identifying Number of Assignee
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the within Security of WELLS FARGO & COMPANY and does hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint                                          attorney to transfer the said Security on the books of the Company, with full power of substitution in the premises.
 
 
NOTICE: The signature to this assignment must correspond with the name as written upon the face of the within instrument in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change whatever.
 

Exhibit 5.1
Wells Fargo & Company
420 Montgomery Street
San Francisco, California 94163
Ladies and Gentlemen:
I am Senior Company Counsel of Wells Fargo & Company (the "Company") and, as such, I, together with other attorneys in the Wells Fargo Law Department, have acted as counsel for the Company in connection with the preparation of a Registration Statement on Form S-3 (the "Registration Statement") of the Company and Wells Fargo Capital XVI, Wells Fargo Capital XVII, Wells Fargo Capital XVIII, Wells Fargo Capital XIX and Wells Fargo Capital XX filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), relating to the proposed offer and sale from time to time of the securities referred to therein, and a Prospectus Supplement dated January 29, 2010 to the Prospectus dated June 4, 2009 (together, the "Prospectus") relating to the offer and sale by the Company under the Registration Statement of $8,260,000 aggregate face amount of Notes Linked to the S&P 500 Index due February 6, 2015 (the "Notes"). The Notes are to be issued under the Indenture dated as of July 21, 1999 (the "Indenture") entered into by the Company and Citibank, N.A., as trustee, and sold pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement dated January 29, 2010 between the Company and the Underwriter named therein (the "Underwriting Agreement").
I, or attorneys in the Wells Fargo Law Department under my direction, have examined such documents, records, and instruments as I have deemed necessary or appropriate for the purposes of this opinion.
Based on the foregoing, I am of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized and, when duly executed by the Company, authenticated in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, and delivered to and paid for by the Underwriters pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Notes will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms subject, as to their legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability, to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium, fraudulent conveyance or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally from time to time in effect and subject to general equity principles (regardless of whether enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law) and except further as enforcement thereof may be limited by any governmental authority that limits, delays or prohibits the making of payments outside the United States.
Wells Fargo & Company
February 5, 2010
Page 2
 
I have relied as to certain relevant facts upon certificates of, and/or information provided by officers and employees of the Company as to the accuracy of such factual matters without independent verification thereof or other investigation. I have also relied, without investigation, upon the following assumptions: (i) natural persons acting on behalf of the Company have sufficient legal capacity to enter into and perform, on behalf of the Company, the transaction in question; (ii) each party to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company has satisfied those legal requirements that are applicable to it to the extent necessary to make such agreements or instruments enforceable against it; (iii) each party to agreements or instruments relevant hereto other than the Company has complied with all legal requirements pertaining to its status as such status relates to its rights to enforce such agreements or instruments against the Company; (iv) each document submitted to me for review is accurate and complete, each such document that is an original is authentic, each such document that is a copy conforms to an authentic original, and all signatures on each such document are genuine; (v) there has not been any mutual mistake of fact or misunderstanding, fraud, duress or undue influence; and (vi) all statutes, judicial and administrative decisions, and rules and regulations of governmental agencies, constituting the law of the opining jurisdictions, are publicly available to lawyers practicing in Minnesota.
Without limiting any other qualifications set forth herein, the opinions expressed herein regarding the enforceability of the Notes are subject to the effect of generally applicable laws that (i) provide for the enforcement of oral waivers or modifications where a material change of position in reliance thereon has occurred or provide that a course of performance may operate as a waiver, (ii) limit the availability of a remedy under certain circumstances where another remedy has been elected, (iii) may, where less than all of a contract may be unenforceable, limit the enforceability of the balance of the contract to circumstances in which the unenforceable portion is not an essential part of the agreed exchange, (iv) govern and afford judicial discretion regarding the determination of damages and entitlement to attorneys' fees and other costs, (v) may permit a party who has materially failed to render or offer performance required by a contract to cure that failure unless either permitting a cure would unreasonably hinder the aggrieved party from making substitute arrangements for performance or it is important under the circumstances to the aggrieved party that performance occur by the date stated in the contract, (vi) may require mitigation of damages, (vii) may limit the enforceability of provisions imposing increased interest rates or late payment charges upon delinquency in payment or default or providing for liquidated damages or for premiums upon acceleration and (ix) limit the waiver of rights under usury laws.
I express no opinion as to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the laws of the State of Minnesota, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and the federal laws of the United States of America. I express no opinion as to whether, or the extent to which, the laws of any particular jurisdiction apply to the subject matter hereof, including, without limitation, the enforceability of the governing law provision contained in the Notes. Because the governing law provision of the Notes relates to the law of a jurisdiction as to which I express no opinion, the opinion regarding enforceability of the Notes set forth herein is given as if the law of the State of Minnesota governs the Notes.
Wells Fargo & Company
February 5, 2010
Page 3
 
I hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K of the Company filed with the Commission and thereby incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement. In giving such consent, I do not thereby admit that I am in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 

Exhibit 5.2
Wells Fargo & Company,
420 Montgomery Street,
San Francisco, California 94163.
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC,
550 California Street, 14th Floor,
San Francisco, California 94104.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special tax counsel to Wells Fargo & Company, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the issuance of $8,260,000 aggregate face amount of Notes Linked to the S&P 500 Index due February 6, 2015 as described in the Company's prospectus supplement dated January 29, 2010 to the Company's prospectus dated June 4, 2009 (the "Prospectus Supplement"). We hereby confirm our opinion as set forth under the heading "Supplemental U.S. Income Tax Considerations" in the Prospectus Supplement.
We hereby consent to the reference to us in the Prospectus Supplement under the caption "Supplemental U.S. Income Tax Considerations" and the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Prospectus Supplement. In giving such consent, we do not admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act.
 


